## 10th Sunday in Ordinary Time

### Ecclesiasticus 46:1-12

### In praise of Joshua and Caleb

Joshua the son of Nun was mighty in war,

    and was the successor of Moses in prophesying.

He became, in accordance with his name,

    a great savior of God’s elect,

to take vengeance on the enemies that rose against them,

    so that he might give Israel its inheritance.

How glorious he was when he lifted his hands

    and stretched out his sword against the cities!

Who before him ever stood so firm?

    For he waged the wars of the Lord.

Was not the sun held back by his hand?

    And did not one day become as long as two?

He called upon the Most High, the Mighty One,

    when enemies pressed him on every side,

and the great Lord answered him

    with hailstones of mighty power.

He hurled down war upon that nation,

    and at the descent of Beth-horʹon he destroyed those who resisted,

so that the nations might know his armament,

    that he was fighting in the sight of the Lord;

    for he wholly followed the Mighty One.

And in the days of Moses he did a loyal deed,

    he and Caleb the son of Jephunʹneh:

they withstood the congregation,

    restrained the people from sin,

    and stilled their wicked murmuring.

And these two alone were preserved

    out of six hundred thousand people on foot,

to bring them into their inheritance,

    into a land flowing with milk and honey.

And the Lord gave Caleb strength,

    which remained with him to old age,

so that he went up to the hill country,

    and his children obtained it for an inheritance;

so that all the sons of Israel might see

    that it is good to follow the Lord.