## Friday of week 15 in Ordinary Time

### 2 Samuel 11:1-17,26-27

### David’s sin

In the spring of the year, the time when kings go forth to battle, David sent Joʹab, and his servants with him, and all Israel; and they ravaged the Ammonites, and besieged Rabbah. But David remained at Jerusalem.

    It happened, late one afternoon, when David arose from his couch and was walking upon the roof of the king’s house, that he saw from the roof a woman bathing; and the woman was very beautiful. And David sent and inquired about the woman. And one said, “Is not this Bathsheʹba, the daughter of Eliʹam, the wife of Uriʹah the Hittite?” So David sent messengers, and took her; and she came to him, and he lay with her. (Now she was purifying herself from her uncleanness.) Then she returned to her house. And the woman conceived; and she sent and told David, “I am with child.”

    So David sent word to Joʹab, “Send me Uriʹah the Hittite.” And Joʹab sent Uriʹah to David. When Uriʹah came to him, David asked how Joʹab was doing, and how the people fared, and how the war prospered. Then David said to Uriʹah, “Go down to your house, and wash your feet.” And Uriʹah went out of the king’s house, and there followed him a present from the king. But Uriʹah slept at the door of the king’s house with all the servants of his lord, and did not go down to his house. When they told David, “Uriʹah did not go down to his house,” David said to Uriʹah, “Have you not come from a journey? Why did you not go down to your house?” Uriʹah said to David, “The ark and Israel and Judah dwell in booths; and my lord Joʹab and the servants of my lord are camping in the open field; shall I then go to my house, to eat and to drink, and to lie with my wife? As you live, and as your soul lives, I will not do this thing.” Then David said to Uriʹah, “Remain here today also, and tomorrow I will let you depart.” So Uriʹah remained in Jerusalem that day, and the next. And David invited him, and he ate in his presence and drank, so that he made him drunk; and in the evening he went out to lie on his couch with the servants of his lord, but he did not go down to his house.

In the morning David wrote a letter to Joʹab, and sent it by the hand of Uriʹah. In the letter he wrote, “Set Uriʹah in the forefront of the hardest fighting, and then draw back from him, that he may be struck down, and die.” And as Joʹab was besieging the city, he assigned Uriʹah to the place where he knew there were valiant men. And the men of the city came out and fought with Joʹab; and some of the servants of David among the people fell. Uriʹah the Hittite was slain also. When the wife of Uriʹah heard that Uriʹah her husband was dead, she made lamentation for her husband. And when the mourning was over, David sent and brought her to his house, and she became his wife, and bore him a son. But the thing that David had done displeased the Lord.