## Monday of week 16 in Ordinary Time

### 2 Samuel 18:6-17,24-19:5

### Absalom’s death; David’s sorrow

The army went out into the field against Israel; and the battle was fought in the forest of Eʹphraim. And the men of Israel were defeated there by the servants of David, and the slaughter there was great on that day, twenty thousand men. The battle spread over the face of all the country; and the forest devoured more people that day than the sword.

    And Abʹsalom chanced to meet the servants of David. Abʹsalom was riding upon his mule, and the mule went under the thick branches of a great oak, and his head caught fast in the oak, and he was left hanging between heaven and earth, while the mule that was under him went on. And a certain man saw it, and told Joʹab, “Behold, I saw Abʹsalom hanging in an oak.” Joʹab said to the man who told him, “What, you saw him! Why then did you not strike him there to the ground? I would have been glad to give you ten pieces of silver and a girdle.” But the man said to Joʹab, “Even if I felt in my hand the weight of a thousand pieces of silver, I would not put forth my hand against the king’s son; for in our hearing the king commanded you and Abiʹshai and Itʹtai, ‘For my sake protect the young man Abʹsalom.’ On the other hand, if I had dealt treacherously against his life (and there is nothing hidden from the king), then you yourself would have stood aloof.” Joʹab said, “I will not waste time like this with you.” And he took three darts in his hand, and thrust them into the heart of Abʹsalom, while he was still alive in the oak. And ten young men, Joʹab’s armor-bearers, surrounded Abʹsalom and struck him, and killed him.

    Then Joʹab blew the trumpet, and the troops came back from pursuing Israel; for Joʹab restrained them. And they took Abʹsalom, and threw him into a great pit in the forest, and raised over him a very great heap of stones; and all Israel fled every one to his own home.

    Now David was sitting between the two gates; and the watchman went up to the roof of the gate by the wall, and when he lifted up his eyes and looked, he saw a man running alone. And the watchman called out and told the king. And the king said, “If he is alone, there are tidings in his mouth.” And he came apace, and drew near. And the watchman saw another man running; and the watchman called to the gate and said, “See, another man running alone!” The king said, “He also brings tidings.” And the watchman said, “I think the running of the foremost is like the running of Ahimʹa-az the son of Zadok.” And the king said, “He is a good man, and comes with good tidings.”

    Then Ahimʹa-az cried out to the king, “All is well.” And he bowed before the king with his face to the earth, and said, “Blessed be the Lord your God, who has delivered up the men who raised their hand against my lord the king.” And the king said, “Is it well with the young man Abʹsalom?” Ahimʹa-az answered, “When Joʹab sent your servant, I saw a great tumult, but I do not know what it was.” And the king said, “Turn aside, and stand here.” So he turned aside, and stood still.

And behold, the Cushite came; and the Cushite said, “Good tidings for my lord the king! For the Lord has delivered you this day from the power of all who rose up against you.” The king said to the Cushite, “Is it well with the young man Abʹsalom?” And the Cushite answered, “May the enemies of my lord the king, and all who rise up against you for evil, be like that young man.” And the king was deeply moved, and went up to the chamber over the gate, and wept; and as he went, he said, “O my son Abʹsalom, my son, my son Abʹsalom! Would I had died instead of you, O Abʹsalom, my son, my son!”

It was told Joʹab, “Behold, the king is weeping and mourning for Abʹsalom.” So the victory that day was turned into mourning for all the people; for the people heard that day, “The king is grieving for his son.” And the people stole into the city that day as people steal in who are ashamed when they flee in battle. The king covered his face, and the king cried with a loud voice, “O my son Abʹsalom, O Abʹsalom, my son, my son!” 