## Thursday of week 16 in Ordinary Time

### 1 Kings 1:11-35,2:10-12

### David selects Solomon as his successor

Nathan said to Bathsheʹba the mother of Solomon, “Have you not heard that Adoniʹjah the son of Haggith has become king and David our lord does not know it? Now therefore come, let me give you counsel, that you may save your own life and the life of your son Solomon. Go in at once to King David, and say to him, ‘Did you not, my lord the king, swear to your maidservant, saying, “Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne”? Why then is Adoniʹjah king?’ Then while you are still speaking with the king, I also will come in after you and confirm your words.”

    So Bathsheʹba went to the king into his chamber (now the king was very old, and Abʹishag the Shuʹnammite was ministering to the king). Bathsheʹba bowed and did obeisance to the king, and the king said, “What do you desire?” She said to him, “My lord, you swore to your maidservant by the Lord your God, saying, ‘Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne.’ And now, behold, Adoniʹjah is king, although you, my lord the king, do not know it. He has sacrificed oxen, fatlings, and sheep in abundance, and has invited all the sons of the king, Abiʹathar the priest, and Joʹab the commander of the army; but Solomon your servant he has not invited. And now, my lord the king, the eyes of all Israel are upon you, to tell them who shall sit on the throne of my lord the king after him. Otherwise it will come to pass, when my lord the king sleeps with his fathers, that I and my son Solomon will be counted offenders.”

    While she was still speaking with the king, Nathan the prophet came in. And they told the king, “Here is Nathan the prophet.” And when he came in before the king, he bowed before the king, with his face to the ground. And Nathan said, “My lord the king, have you said, ‘Adoniʹjah shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne’? For he has gone down this day, and has sacrificed oxen, fatlings, and sheep in abundance, and has invited all the king’s sons, Joʹab the commander of the army, and Abiʹathar the priest; and behold, they are eating and drinking before him, and saying, ‘Long live King Adoniʹjah!’ But me, your servant, and Zadok the priest, and Benaiʹah the son of Jehoiʹada, and your servant Solomon, he has not invited. Has this thing been brought about by my lord the king and you have not told your servants who should sit on the throne of my lord the king after him?”

Then King David answered, “Call Bathsheʹba to me.” So she came into the king’s presence, and stood before the king. And the king swore, saying, “As the Lord lives, who has redeemed my soul out of every adversity, as I swore to you by the Lord, the God of Israel, saying, ‘Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne in my stead’; even so will I do this day.” Then Bathsheʹba bowed with her face to the ground, and did obeisance to the king, and said, “May my lord King David live for ever!”

    King David said, “Call to me Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Benaiʹah the son of Jehoiʹada.” So they came before the king. And the king said to them, “Take with you the servants of your lord, and cause Solomon my son to ride on my own mule, and bring him down to Gihon; and let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet there anoint him king over Israel; then blow the trumpet, and say, ‘Long live King Solomon!’ You shall then come up after him, and he shall come and sit upon my throne; for he shall be king in my stead; and I have appointed him to be ruler over Israel and over Judah.”

    Then David slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David. And the time that David reigned over Israel was forty years; he reigned seven years in Hebron, and thirty-three years in Jerusalem. So Solomon sat upon the throne of David his father; and his kingdom was firmly established.