## Wednesday of week 18 in Ordinary Time

### 2 Chronicles 20:1-9,13-24

### The help God offered to the faithful King Jehoshaphat

The Moabites and Ammonites, and with them some of the Me-uʹnites, came against Jehoshʹaphat for battle. Some men came and told Jehoshʹaphat, “A great multitude is coming against you from Edom, from beyond the sea; and, behold, they are in Hazʹazon-taʹmar” (that is, En-gedʹi). Then Jehoshʹaphat feared, and set himself to seek the Lord, and proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah. And Judah assembled to seek help from the Lord; from all the cities of Judah they came to seek the Lord.

And Jehoshʹaphat stood in the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem, in the house of the Lord, before the new court, and said, “O Lord, God of our fathers, art thou not God in heaven? Dost thou not rule over all the kingdoms of the nations? In thy hand are power and might, so that none is able to withstand thee. Didst thou not, O our God, drive out the inhabitants of this land before thy people Israel, and give it for ever to the descendants of Abraham thy friend? And they have dwelt in it, and have built thee in it a sanctuary for thy name, saying, ‘If evil comes upon us, the sword, judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we will stand before this house, and before thee, for thy name is in this house, and cry to thee in our affliction, and thou wilt hear and save.’ 

    Meanwhile all the men of Judah stood before the Lord, with their little ones, their wives, and their children. And the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jahaʹziel the son of Zechariʹah, son of Benaiʹah, son of Je-iʹel, son of Mattaniʹah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph, in the midst of the assembly. And he said, “Hearken, all Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem, and King Jehoshʹaphat: Thus says the Lord to you, ‘Fear not, and be not dismayed at this great multitude; for the battle is not yours but God’s. Tomorrow go down against them; behold, they will come up by the ascent of Ziz; you will find them at the end of the valley, east of the wilderness of Jeruʹel. You will not need to fight in this battle; take your position, stand still, and see the victory of the Lord on your behalf, O Judah and Jerusalem.’ Fear not, and be not dismayed; tomorrow go out against them, and the Lord will be with you.”

    Then Jehoshʹaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell down before the Lord, worshiping the Lord. And the Levites, of the Koʹhathites and the Korʹahites, stood up to praise the Lord, the God of Israel, with a very loud voice.

    And they rose early in the morning and went out into the wilderness of Tekoʹa; and as they went out, Jehoshʹaphat stood and said, “Hear me, Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem! Believe in the Lord your God, and you will be established; believe his prophets, and you will succeed.” And when he had taken counsel with the people, he appointed those who were to sing to the Lord and praise him in holy array, as they went before the army, and say,

“Give thanks to the Lord,

    for his steadfast love endures for ever.”

And when they began to sing and praise, the Lord set an ambush against the men of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seʹir, who had come against Judah, so that they were routed. For the men of Ammon and Moab rose against the inhabitants of Mount Seʹir, destroying them utterly, and when they had made an end of the inhabitants of Seʹir, they all helped to destroy one another.

    When Judah came to the watchtower of the wilderness, they looked toward the multitude; and behold, they were dead bodies lying on the ground; none had escaped. 