## Friday of week 19 in Ordinary Time

### 2 Kings 11:1-12:1

### Athaliah and Jehoash

Now when Athaliʹah the mother of Ahaziʹah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the royal family. But Jehoshʹeba, the daughter of King Joram, sister of Ahaziʹah, took Joʹash the son of Ahaziʹah, and stole him away from among the king’s sons who were about to be slain, and she put him and his nurse in a bedchamber. Thus she hid him from Athaliʹah, so that he was not slain; and he remained with her six years, hid in the house of the Lord, while Athaliʹah reigned over the land.

But in the seventh year Jehoiʹada sent and brought the captains of the Carites and of the guards, and had them come to him in the house of the Lord; and he made a covenant with them and put them under oath in the house of the Lord, and he showed them the king’s son. And he commanded them, “This is the thing that you shall do: one third of you, those who come off duty on the sabbath and guard the king’s house (another third being at the gate Sur and a third at the gate behind the guards), shall guard the palace; and the two divisions of you, which come on duty in force on the sabbath and guard the house of the Lord, shall surround the king, each with his weapons in his hand; and whoever approaches the ranks is to be slain. Be with the king when he goes out and when he comes in.”

    The captains did according to all that Jehoiʹada the priest commanded, and each brought his men who were to go off duty on the sabbath, with those who were to come on duty on the sabbath, and came to Jehoiʹada the priest. And the priest delivered to the captains the spears and shields that had been King David’s, which were in the house of the Lord; and the guards stood, every man with his weapons in his hand, from the south side of the house to the north side of the house, around the altar and the house. Then he brought out the king’s son, and put the crown upon him, and gave him the testimony; and they proclaimed him king, and anointed him; and they clapped their hands, and said, “Long live the king!”

When Athaliʹah heard the noise of the guard and of the people, she went into the house of the Lord to the people; and when she looked, there was the king standing by the pillar, according to the custom, and the captains and the trumpeters beside the king, and all the people of the land rejoicing and blowing trumpets. And Athaliʹah rent her clothes, and cried, “Treason! Treason!” Then Jehoiʹada the priest commanded the captains who were set over the army, “Bring her out between the ranks; and slay with the sword any one who follows her.” For the priest said, “Let her not be slain in the house of the Lord.” So they laid hands on her; and she went through the horses’ entrance to the king’s house, and there she was slain.

    And Jehoiʹada made a covenant between the Lord and the king and people, that they should be the Lord’s people; and also between the king and the people. Then all the people of the land went to the house of Baʹal, and tore it down; his altars and his images they broke in pieces, and they slew Mattan the priest of Baʹal before the altars. And the priest posted watchmen over the house of the Lord. And he took the captains, the Carites, the guards, and all the people of the land; and they brought the king down from the house of the Lord, marching through the gate of the guards to the king’s house. And he took his seat on the throne of the kings. So all the people of the land rejoiced; and the city was quiet after Athaliʹah had been slain with the sword at the king’s house.

    Jehoʹash was seven years old when he began to reign.