## Tuesday of week 22 in Ordinary Time

### Amos 2:4-16

### The Lord’s judgement on Judah and Israel

Thus says the Lord:

“For three transgressions of Judah,

    and for four, I will not revoke the punishment;

because they have rejected the law of the Lord,

    and have not kept his statutes,

but their lies have led them astray,

    after which their fathers walked.

So I will send a fire upon Judah,

    and it shall devour the strongholds of Jerusalem.”

Thus says the Lord:

“For three transgressions of Israel,

    and for four, I will not revoke the punishment;

because they sell the righteous for silver,

    and the needy for a pair of shoes—

they that trample the head of the poor into the dust of the earth,

    and turn aside the way of the afflicted;

a man and his father go in to the same maiden,

    so that my holy name is profaned;

they lay themselves down beside every altar

    upon garments taken in pledge;

and in the house of their God they drink

    the wine of those who have been fined.

“Yet I destroyed the Amorite before them,

    whose height was like the height of the cedars,

    and who was as strong as the oaks;

I destroyed his fruit above,

    and his roots beneath.

Also I brought you up out of the land of Egypt,

    and led you forty years in the wilderness,

    to possess the land of the Amorite.

And I raised up some of your sons for prophets,

    and some of your young men for Nazirites.

    Is it not indeed so, O people of Israel?”

    says the Lord.

“But you made the Nazirites drink wine,

    and commanded the prophets,

    saying, ‘You shall not prophesy.’

“Behold, I will press you down in your place,

    as a cart full of sheaves presses down.

Flight shall perish from the swift,

    and the strong shall not retain his strength,

    nor shall the mighty save his life;

he who handles the bow shall not stand,

    and he who is swift of foot shall not save himself,

    nor shall he who rides the horse save his life;

and he who is stout of heart among the mighty

    shall flee away naked in that day,”

    says the Lord.