## Saturday of week 22 in Ordinary Time

### Amos 5:18-6:14

### The Day of the Lord. Against exterior worship and false security

Woe to you who desire the day of the Lord!

    Why would you have the day of the Lord?

It is darkness, and not light;

    as if a man fled from a lion,

    and a bear met him;

or went into the house and leaned with his hand against the wall,

    and a serpent bit him.

Is not the day of the Lord darkness, and not light,

    and gloom with no brightness in it?

“I hate, I despise your feasts,

    and I take no delight in your solemn assemblies.

Even though you offer me your burnt offerings and cereal offerings,

    I will not accept them,

and the peace offerings of your fatted beasts

    I will not look upon.

Take away from me the noise of your songs;

    to the melody of your harps I will not listen.

But let justice roll down like waters,

    and righteousness like an everflowing stream.

“Did you bring to me sacrifices and offerings the forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel? You shall take up Sakkuth your king, and Kaiwan your star-god, your images, which you made for yourselves; therefore I will take you into exile beyond Damascus,” says the Lord, whose name is the God of hosts.

“Woe to those who are at ease in Zion,

    and to those who feel secure on the mountain of Samarʹia,

the notable men of the first of the nations,

    to whom the house of Israel come!

Pass over to Calneh, and see;

    and thence go to Hamath the great;

    then go down to Gath of the Philistines.

Are they better than these kingdoms?

    Or is their territory greater than your territory,

O you who put far away the evil day,

    and bring near the seat of violence?

“Woe to those who lie upon beds of ivory,

    and stretch themselves upon their couches,

and eat lambs from the flock,

    and calves from the midst of the stall;

who sing idle songs to the sound of the harp,

    and like David invent for themselves instruments of music;

who drink wine in bowls,

    and anoint themselves with the finest oils,

    but are not grieved over the ruin of Joseph!

Therefore they shall now be the first of those to go into exile,

    and the revelry of those who stretch themselves shall pass away.”

The Lord God has sworn by himself (says the Lord, the God of hosts):

“I abhor the pride of Jacob,

    and hate his strongholds;

    and I will deliver up the city and all that is in it.”

And if ten men remain in one house, they shall die. And when a man’s kinsman, he who burns him, shall take him up to bring the bones out of the house, and shall say to him who is in the innermost parts of the house, “Is there still any one with you?” he shall say, “No”; and he shall say, “Hush! We must not mention the name of the Lord.”

For behold, the Lord commands,

    and the great house shall be smitten into fragments,

    and the little house into bits.

Do horses run upon rocks?

    Does one plow the sea with oxen?

But you have turned justice into poison

    and the fruit of righteousness into wormwood—

you who rejoice in Lo-debar,

    who say, “Have we not by our own strength

    taken Karnaim for ourselves?”

“For behold, I will raise up against you a nation,

    O house of Israel,” says the Lord, the God of hosts;

“and they shall oppress you from the entrance of Hamath

    to the Brook of the Arabah.”