## Wednesday of week 23 in Ordinary Time

### Hosea 1:1-9,3:1-5

### The prophet as symbol of God’s love for his people

The word of the Lord that came to Hoseʹa the son of Be-eʹri, in the days of Uzziʹah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiʹah, kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboʹam the son of Joʹash, king of Israel.

    When the Lord first spoke through Hoseʹa, the Lord said to Hoseʹa, “Go, take to yourself a wife of harlotry and have children of harlotry, for the land commits great harlotry by forsaking the Lord.” So he went and took Gomer the daughter of Diblaʹim, and she conceived and bore him a son.

    And the Lord said to him, “Call his name Jezreel; for yet a little while, and I will punish the house of Jehu for the blood of Jezreel, and I will put an end to the kingdom of the house of Israel. And on that day, I will break the bow of Israel in the valley of Jezreel.”

    She conceived again and bore a daughter. And the Lord said to him, “Call her name Not pitied, for I will no more have pity on the house of Israel, to forgive them at all. But I will have pity on the house of Judah, and I will deliver them by the Lord their God; I will not deliver them by bow, nor by sword, nor by war, nor by horses, nor by horsemen.”

    When she had weaned Not pitied, she conceived and bore a son. And the Lord said, “Call his name Not my people, for you are not my people and I am not your God.”

    And the Lord said to me, “Go again, love a woman who is beloved of a paramour and is an adulteress; even as the Lord loves the people of Israel, though they turn to other gods and love cakes of raisins.” So I bought her for fifteen shekels of silver and a homer and a lethech of barley. And I said to her, “You must dwell as mine for many days; you shall not play the harlot, or belong to another man; so will I also be to you.” For the children of Israel shall dwell many days without king or prince, without sacrifice or pillar, without ephod or teraphim. Afterward the children of Israel shall return and seek the Lord their God, and David their king; and they shall come in fear to the Lord and to his goodness in the latter days.