## Friday of week 23 in Ordinary Time

### Hosea 4:1-10,5:1-7

### The general corruption of Israel and its priests

Hear the word of the Lord, O people of Israel;

    for the Lord has a controversy with the inhabitants of the land.

There is no faithfulness or kindness,

    and no knowledge of God in the land;

there is swearing, lying, killing, stealing, and committing adultery;

    they break all bounds and murder follows murder.

Therefore the land mourns,

    and all who dwell in it languish,

and also the beasts of the field,

    and the birds of the air;

    and even the fish of the sea are taken away.

Yet let no one contend,

    and let none accuse,

    for with you is my contention, O priest.

You shall stumble by day,

    the prophet also shall stumble with you by night;

    and I will destroy your mother.

My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge;

    because you have rejected knowledge,

    I reject you from being a priest to me.

And since you have forgotten the law of your God,

    I also will forget your children.

The more they increased,

    the more they sinned against me;

    I will change their glory into shame.

They feed on the sin of my people;

    they are greedy for their iniquity.

And it shall be like people, like priest;

    I will punish them for their ways,

    and requite them for their deeds.

They shall eat, but not be satisfied;

    they shall play the harlot, but not multiply;

because they have forsaken the Lord

    to cherish harlotry.

Hear this, O priests!

Give heed, O house of Israel!

Hearken, O house of the king!

    For the judgment pertains to you;

for you have been a snare at Mizpah,

    and a net spread upon Tabor.

And they have made deep the pit of Shittim;

    but I will chastise all of them.

I know Eʹphraim,

    and Israel is not hid from me;

for now, O Eʹphraim, you have played the harlot,

    Israel is defiled.

Their deeds do not permit them

    to return to their God.

For the spirit of harlotry is within them,

    and they know not the Lord.

The pride of Israel testifies to his face;

    Eʹphraim shall stumble in his guilt;

    Judah also shall stumble with them.

With their flocks and herds they shall go

    to seek the Lord,

but they will not find him;

    he has withdrawn from them.

They have dealt faithlessly with the Lord;

    for they have borne alien children.

    Now the new moon shall devour them with their fields.