## Wednesday of week 24 in Ordinary Time

### Hosea 11:1-11

### God’s mercy is never lacking

When Israel was a child, I loved him,

    and out of Egypt I called my son.

The more I called them,

    the more they went from me;

they kept sacrificing to the Baʹals,

    and burning incense to idols.

Yet it was I who taught Eʹphraim to walk,

    I took them up in my arms;

    but they did not know that I healed them.

I led them with cords of compassion,

    with the bands of love,

and I became to them as one

    who eases the yoke on their jaws,

    and I bent down to them and fed them.

They shall return to the land of Egypt,

    and Assyria shall be their king,

    because they have refused to return to me.

The sword shall rage against their cities,

    consume the bars of their gates,

    and devour them in their fortresses.

My people are bent on turning away from me;

    so they are appointed to the yoke,

    and none shall remove it.

How can I give you up, O Eʹphraim!

    How can I hand you over, O Israel!

How can I make you like Admah!

    How can I treat you like Zeboiʹim!

My heart recoils within me,

    my compassion grows warm and tender.

I will not execute my fierce anger,

    I will not again destroy Eʹphraim;

for I am God and not man,

    the Holy One in your midst,

    and I will not come to destroy.

They shall go after the Lord,

    he will roar like a lion;

yea, he will roar,

    and his sons shall come trembling from the west;

they shall come trembling like birds from Egypt,

    and like doves from the land of Assyria;

    and I will return them to their homes, says the Lord.