## Saturday of week 24 in Ordinary Time

### 2 Kings 15:1-5,32-35,16:1-8

### The reigns of Azariah, Jotham and Ahaz in Judah

In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboʹam king of Israel Azariʹah the son of Amaziʹah, king of Judah, began to reign. He was sixteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Jecoliʹah of Jerusalem. And he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, according to all that his father Amaziʹah had done. Nevertheless the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. And the Lord smote the king, so that he was a leper to the day of his death, and he dwelt in a separate house. And Jotham the king’s son was over the household, governing the people of the land. 

    In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliʹah, king of Israel, Jotham the son of Uzziʹah, king of Judah, began to reign. He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Jeruʹsha the daughter of Zadok. And he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, according to all that his father Uzziʹah had done. Nevertheless the high places were not removed; the people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. He built the upper gate of the house of the Lord. 

    In the seventeenth year of Pekah the son of Remaliʹah, Ahaz the son of Jotham, king of Judah, began to reign. Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And he did not do what was right in the eyes of the Lord his God, as his father David had done, but he walked in the way of the kings of Israel. He even burned his son as an offering, according to the abominable practices of the nations whom the Lord drove out before the people of Israel. And he sacrificed and burned incense on the high places, and on the hills, and under every green tree.

    Then Rezin king of Syria and Pekah the son of Remaliʹah, king of Israel, came up to wage war on Jerusalem, and they besieged Ahaz but could not conquer him. At that time the king of Edom recovered Elath for Edom, and drove the men of Judah from Elath; and the Eʹdomites came to Elath, where they dwell to this day. So Ahaz sent messengers to Tigʹlath-pileʹser king of Assyria, saying, “I am your servant and your son. Come up, and rescue me from the hand of the king of Syria and from the hand of the king of Israel, who are attacking me.” Ahaz also took the silver and gold that was found in the house of the Lord and in the treasures of the king’s house, and sent a present to the king of Assyria. 