## Tuesday of week 25 in Ordinary Time

### Isaiah 5:8-13,17-24

### Curses on evil-doers

Woe to those who join house to house,

    who add field to field,

until there is no more room,

    and you are made to dwell alone

    in the midst of the land.

The Lord of hosts has sworn in my hearing:

“Surely many houses shall be desolate,

    large and beautiful houses, without inhabitant.

For ten acres of vineyard shall yield but one bath,

    and a homer of seed shall yield but an ephah.”

Woe to those who rise early in the morning,

    that they may run after strong drink,

who tarry late into the evening

    till wine inflames them!

They have lyre and harp,

    timbrel and flute and wine at their feasts;

but they do not regard the deeds of the Lord,

    or see the work of his hands.

Therefore my people go into exile

    for want of knowledge;

their honored men are dying of hunger,

    and their multitude is parched with thirst.

Then shall the lambs graze as in their pasture,

    fatlings and kids shall feed among the ruins.

Woe to those who draw iniquity with cords of falsehood,

    who draw sin as with cart ropes,

who say: “Let him make haste,

    let him speed his work

    that we may see it;

let the purpose of the Holy One of Israel draw near,

    and let it come, that we may know it!”

Woe to those who call evil good

    and good evil,

who put darkness for light

    and light for darkness,

who put bitter for sweet

    and sweet for bitter!

Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes,

    and shrewd in their own sight!

Woe to those who are heroes at drinking wine,

    and valiant men in mixing strong drink,

who acquit the guilty for a bribe,

    and deprive the innocent of his right!

Therefore, as the tongue of fire devours the stubble,

    and as dry grass sinks down in the flame,

so their root will be as rottenness,

    and their blossom go up like dust;

for they have rejected the law of the Lord of hosts,

    and have despised the word of the Holy One of Israel.