## Saturday of week 25 in Ordinary Time

### Micah 1:1-9,2:1-11

### An oracle against Samaria and Jerusalem

The word of the Lord that came to Micah of Moʹresheth in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiʹah, kings of Judah, which he saw concerning Samarʹia and Jerusalem.

Hear, you peoples, all of you;

    hearken, O earth, and all that is in it;

and let the Lord God be a witness against you,

    the Lord from his holy temple.

For behold, the Lord is coming forth out of his place,

    and will come down and tread upon the high places of the earth.

And the mountains will melt under him

    and the valleys will be cleft,

like wax before the fire,

    like waters poured down a steep place.

All this is for the transgression of Jacob

    and for the sins of the house of Israel.

What is the transgression of Jacob?

    Is it not Samarʹia?

And what is the sin of the house of Judah?

    Is it not Jerusalem?

Therefore I will make Samarʹia a heap in the open country,

    a place for planting vineyards;

and I will pour down her stones into the valley,

    and uncover her foundations.

All her images shall be beaten to pieces,

    all her hires shall be burned with fire,

    and all her idols I will lay waste;

for from the hire of a harlot she gathered them,

    and to the hire of a harlot they shall return.

For this I will lament and wail;

    I will go stripped and naked;

I will make lamentation like the jackals,

    and mourning like the ostriches.

For her wound is incurable;

    and it has come to Judah,

it has reached to the gate of my people,

    to Jerusalem.

Woe to those who devise wickedness

    and work evil upon their beds!

When the morning dawns, they perform it,

    because it is in the power of their hand.

They covet fields, and seize them;

    and houses, and take them away;

they oppress a man and his house,

    a man and his inheritance.

Therefore thus says the Lord:

Behold, against this family I am devising evil,

    from which you cannot remove your necks;

and you shall not walk haughtily,

    for it will be an evil time.

In that day they shall take up a taunt song against you,

    and wail with bitter lamentation,

and say, “We are utterly ruined;

    he changes the portion of my people;

how he removes it from me!

    Among our captors he divides our fields.”

Therefore you will have none to cast the line by lot

    in the assembly of the Lord.

“Do not preach”—thus they preach—

    “one should not preach of such things;

    disgrace will not overtake us.”

Should this be said, O house of Jacob?

    Is the Spirit of the Lord impatient?

    Are these his doings?

Do not my words do good

    to him who walks uprightly?

But you rise against my people as an enemy;

    you strip the robe from the peaceful,

from those who pass by trustingly

    with no thought of war.

The women of my people you drive out

    from their pleasant houses;

from their young children you take away

    my glory for ever.

Arise and go,

    for this is no place to rest;

because of uncleanness that destroys

    with a grievous destruction.

If a man should go about and utter wind and lies,

    saying, “I will preach to you of wine and strong drink,”

    he would be the preacher for this people!