## 26th Sunday in Ordinary Time

### Micah 3:1-12

### Jerusalem will be destroyed for her leaders’ sins

I said:

Hear, you heads of Jacob

    and rulers of the house of Israel!

Is it not for you to know justice?—

    you who hate the good and love the evil,

who tear the skin from off my people,

    and their flesh from off their bones;

who eat the flesh of my people,

    and flay their skin from off them,

and break their bones in pieces,

    and chop them up like meat in a kettle,

    like flesh in a caldron.

Then they will cry to the Lord,

    but he will not answer them;

he will hide his face from them at that time,

    because they have made their deeds evil.

Thus says the Lord concerning the prophets

    who lead my people astray,

who cry “Peace”

    when they have something to eat,

but declare war against him

    who puts nothing into their mouths.

Therefore it shall be night to you, without vision,

    and darkness to you, without divination.

The sun shall go down upon the prophets,

    and the day shall be black over them;

the seers shall be disgraced,

    and the diviners put to shame;

they shall all cover their lips,

    for there is no answer from God.

But as for me, I am filled with power,

    with the Spirit of the Lord,

    and with justice and might,

to declare to Jacob his transgression

    and to Israel his sin.

Hear this, you heads of the house of Jacob

    and rulers of the house of Israel,

who abhor justice

    and pervert all equity,

who build Zion with blood

    and Jerusalem with wrong.

Its heads give judgment for a bribe,

    its priests teach for hire,

    its prophets divine for money;

yet they lean upon the Lord and say,

    “Is not the Lord in the midst of us?

    No evil shall come upon us.”

Therefore because of you

    Zion shall be plowed as a field;

Jerusalem shall become a heap of ruins,

    and the mountain of the house a wooded height.