## Wednesday of week 26 in Ordinary Time

### 2 Kings 17:24-41

### The origin of the Samaritans

The king of Assyria brought people from Babylon, Cuthah, Avva, Hamath, and Sepharvaʹim, and placed them in the cities of Samarʹia instead of the people of Israel; and they took possession of Samarʹia, and dwelt in its cities. And at the beginning of their dwelling there, they did not fear the Lord; therefore the Lord sent lions among them, which killed some of them. So the king of Assyria was told, “The nations which you have carried away and placed in the cities of Samarʹia do not know the law of the god of the land; therefore he has sent lions among them, and behold, they are killing them, because they do not know the law of the god of the land.” Then the king of Assyria commanded, “Send there one of the priests whom you carried away thence; and let him go and dwell there, and teach them the law of the god of the land.” So one of the priests whom they had carried away from Samarʹia came and dwelt in Bethel, and taught them how they should fear the Lord.

    But every nation still made gods of its own, and put them in the shrines of the high places which the Samaritans had made, every nation in the cities in which they dwelt; the men of Babylon made Sucʹcoth-beʹnoth, the men of Cuth made Nergal, the men of Hamath made Ashiʹma, and the Avʹvites made Nibhaz and Tartak; and the Sepharʹvites burned their children in the fire to Adramʹmelech and Anamʹmelech, the gods of Sepharvaʹim. They also feared the Lord, and appointed from among themselves all sorts of people as priests of the high places, who sacrificed for them in the shrines of the high places. So they feared the Lord but also served their own gods, after the manner of the nations from among whom they had been carried away. To this day they do according to the former manner.

    They do not fear the Lord, and they do not follow the statutes or the ordinances or the law or the commandment which the Lord commanded the children of Jacob, whom he named Israel. The Lord made a covenant with them, and commanded them, “You shall not fear other gods or bow yourselves to them or serve them or sacrifice to them; but you shall fear the Lord, who brought you out of the land of Egypt with great power and with an outstretched arm; you shall bow yourselves to him, and to him you shall sacrifice. And the statutes and the ordinances and the law and the commandment which he wrote for you, you shall always be careful to do. You shall not fear other gods, and you shall not forget the covenant that I have made with you. You shall not fear other gods, but you shall fear the Lord your God, and he will deliver you out of the hand of all your enemies.” However they would not listen, but they did according to their former manner.

    So these nations feared the Lord, and also served their graven images; their children likewise, and their children’s children—as their fathers did, so they do to this day.