## Saturday of week 26 in Ordinary Time

### 2 Kings 20:1-19

### Hezekiah’s cure. A prophecy of the Babylonian captivity

In those days Hezekiʹah became sick and was at the point of death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came to him, and said to him, “Thus says the Lord, ‘Set your house in order; for you shall die, you shall not recover.’ ” Then Hezekiʹah turned his face to the wall, and prayed to the Lord, saying, “Remember now, O Lord, I beseech thee, how I have walked before thee in faithfulness and with a whole heart, and have done what is good in thy sight.” And Hezekiʹah wept bitterly. And before Isaiah had gone out of the middle court, the word of the Lord came to him: “Turn back, and say to Hezekiʹah the prince of my people, Thus says the Lord, the God of David your father: I have heard your prayer, I have seen your tears; behold, I will heal you; on the third day you shall go up to the house of the Lord. And I will add fifteen years to your life. I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria, and I will defend this city for my own sake and for my servant David’s sake.” And Isaiah said, “Bring a cake of figs. And let them take and lay it on the boil, that he may recover.”

    And Hezekiʹah said to Isaiah, “What shall be the sign that the Lord will heal me, and that I shall go up to the house of the Lord on the third day?” And Isaiah said, “This is the sign to you from the Lord, that the Lord will do the thing that he has promised: shall the shadow go forward ten steps, or go back ten steps?” And Hezekiʹah answered, “It is an easy thing for the shadow to lengthen ten steps; rather let the shadow go back ten steps.” And Isaiah the prophet cried to the Lord; and he brought the shadow back ten steps, by which the sun had declined on the dial of Ahaz.

At that time Meroʹdach-balʹadan the son of Balʹadan, king of Babylon, sent envoys with letters and a present to Hezekiʹah; for he heard that Hezekiʹah had been sick. And Hezekiʹah welcomed them, and he showed them all his treasure house, the silver, the gold, the spices, the precious oil, his armory, all that was found in his storehouses; there was nothing in his house or in all his realm that Hezekiʹah did not show them. Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiʹah, and said to him, “What did these men say? And whence did they come to you?” And Hezekiʹah said, “They have come from a far country, from Babylon.” He said, “What have they seen in your house?” And Hezekiʹah answered, “They have seen all that is in my house; there is nothing in my storehouses that I did not show them.”

    Then Isaiah said to Hezekiʹah, “Hear the word of the Lord: Behold, the days are coming, when all that is in your house, and that which your fathers have stored up till this day, shall be carried to Babylon; nothing shall be left, says the Lord. And some of your own sons, who are born to you, shall be taken away; and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.” Then said Hezekiʹah to Isaiah, “The word of the Lord which you have spoken is good.” For he thought, “Why not, if there will be peace and security in my days?”