## Thursday of week 27 in Ordinary Time

### Isaiah 37:21-35

### Prophecies against the Assyrian king

Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiʹah, saying, “Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Because you have prayed to me concerning Sennachʹerib king of Assyria, this is the word that the Lord has spoken concerning him:

‘She despises you, she scorns you—

    the virgin daughter of Zion;

she wags her head behind you—

    the daughter of Jerusalem.

‘Whom have you mocked and reviled?

    Against whom have you raised your voice

and haughtily lifted your eyes?

    Against the Holy One of Israel!

By your servants you have mocked the Lord,

    and you have said, With my many chariots

I have gone up the heights of the mountains,

    to the far recesses of Lebanon;

I felled its tallest cedars,

    its choicest cypresses;

I came to its remotest height,

    its densest forest.

I dug wells

    and drank waters,

and I dried up with the sole of my foot

    all the streams of Egypt.

‘Have you not heard

    that I determined it long ago?

I planned from days of old

    what now I bring to pass,

that you should make fortified cities

    crash into heaps of ruins,

while their inhabitants, shorn of strength,

    are dismayed and confounded,

and have become like plants of the field

    and like tender grass,

like grass on the housetops,

    blighted before it is grown.

‘I know your sitting down

    and your going out and coming in,

    and your raging against me.

Because you have raged against me

    and your arrogance has come to my ears,

I will put my hook in your nose

    and my bit in your mouth,

and I will turn you back on the way

    by which you came.’

“And this shall be the sign for you: this year eat what grows of itself, and in the second year what springs of the same; then in the third year sow and reap, and plant vineyards, and eat their fruit. And the surviving remnant of the house of Judah shall again take root downward, and bear fruit upward; for out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and out of Mount Zion a band of survivors. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this.

    “Therefore thus says the Lord concerning the king of Assyria: He shall not come into this city, or shoot an arrow there, or come before it with a shield, or cast up a siege mound against it. By the way that he came, by the same he shall return, and he shall not come into this city, says the Lord. For I will defend this city to save it, for my own sake and for the sake of my servant David.”