## Saturday of week 27 in Ordinary Time

### Zephaniah 1:1-7,14-2:3

### The Lord’s judgement

The word of the Lord which came to Zephaniʹah the son of Cushi, son of Gedaliʹah, son of Amariʹah, son of Hezekiʹah, in the days of Josiʹah the son of Amon, king of Judah.

“I will utterly sweep away everything

    from the face of the earth,” says the Lord.

“I will sweep away man and beast;

    I will sweep away the birds of the air

    and the fish of the sea.

I will overthrow the wicked;

    I will cut off mankind

    from the face of the earth,” says the Lord.

“I will stretch out my hand against Judah,

    and against all the inhabitants of Jerusalem;

and I will cut off from this place the remnant of Baʹal

    and the name of the idolatrous priests;

those who bow down on the roofs

    to the host of the heavens;

those who bow down and swear to the Lord

    and yet swear by Milcom;

those who have turned back from following the Lord,

    who do not seek the Lord or inquire of him.”

Be silent before the Lord God!

    For the day of the Lord is at hand;

the Lord has prepared a sacrifice

    and consecrated his guests.

The great day of the Lord is near,

    near and hastening fast;

the sound of the day of the Lord is bitter,

    the mighty man cries aloud there.

A day of wrath is that day,

    a day of distress and anguish,

a day of ruin and devastation,

    a day of darkness and gloom,

a day of clouds and thick darkness,

    a day of trumpet blast and battle cry

against the fortified cities

    and against the lofty battlements.

I will bring distress on men,

    so that they shall walk like the blind,

    because they have sinned against the Lord;

their blood shall be poured out like dust,

    and their flesh like dung.

Neither their silver nor their gold

    shall be able to deliver them

    on the day of the wrath of the Lord.

In the fire of his jealous wrath,

    all the earth shall be consumed;

for a full, yea, sudden end

    he will make of all the inhabitants of the earth.

Come together and hold assembly,

O shameless nation,

before you are driven away

    like the drifting chaff,

before there comes upon you

    the fierce anger of the Lord,

before there comes upon you

    the day of the wrath of the Lord.

Seek the Lord, all you humble of the land,

    who do his commands;

seek righteousness, seek humility;

    perhaps you may be hidden

    on the day of the wrath of the Lord.