## Tuesday of week 28 in Ordinary Time

### Jeremiah 2:1-13,20-25

### The infidelity of God’s people

The word of the Lord came to me, saying, “Go and proclaim in the hearing of Jerusalem, Thus says the Lord,

I remember the devotion of your youth,

    your love as a bride,

how you followed me in the wilderness,

    in a land not sown.

Israel was holy to the Lord,

    the first fruits of his harvest.

All who ate of it became guilty;

    evil came upon them,

    says the Lord.”

Hear the word of the Lord, O house of Jacob, and all the families of the house of Israel. Thus says the Lord:

“What wrong did your fathers find in me

    that they went far from me,

and went after worthlessness, and became worthless?

They did not say, ‘Where is the Lord

    who brought us up from the land of Egypt,

who led us in the wilderness,

    in a land of deserts and pits,

in a land of drought and deep darkness,

    in a land that none passes through,

    where no man dwells?’

And I brought you into a plentiful land

    to enjoy its fruits and its good things.

But when you came in you defiled my land,

    and made my heritage an abomination.

The priests did not say, ‘Where is the Lord?’

    Those who handle the law did not know me;

the rulers transgressed against me;

    the prophets prophesied by Baʹal,

    and went after things that do not profit.

“Therefore I still contend with you,

    says the Lord,

    and with your children’s children I will contend.

For cross to the coasts of Cyprus and see,

    or send to Kedar and examine with care;

    see if there has been such a thing.

Has a nation changed its gods,

    even though they are no gods?

But my people have changed their glory

    for that which does not profit.

Be appalled, O heavens, at this,

    be shocked, be utterly desolate,

    says the Lord,

for my people have committed two evils:

    they have forsaken me,

the fountain of living waters,

    and hewed out cisterns for themselves,

broken cisterns,

    that can hold no water.

“For long ago you broke your yoke

    and burst your bonds;

    and you said, ‘I will not serve.’

Yea, upon every high hill

    and under every green tree

    you bowed down as a harlot.

Yet I planted you a choice vine,

    wholly of pure seed.

How then have you turned degenerate

    and become a wild vine?

Though you wash yourself with lye

    and use much soap,

    the stain of your guilt is still before me,

    says the Lord God.

How can you say, ‘I am not defiled,

    I have not gone after the Baʹals’?

Look at your way in the valley;

    know what you have done—

a restive young camel interlacing her tracks,

    a wild ass used to the wilderness,

in her heat sniffing the wind!

    Who can restrain her lust?

None who seek her need weary themselves;

    in her month they will find her.

Keep your feet from going unshod

    and your throat from thirst.

But you said, ‘It is hopeless,

    for I have loved strangers,

    and after them I will go.’