## Wednesday of week 28 in Ordinary Time

### Jeremiah 3:1-5,19-4:4

### An invitation to conversion

“If a man divorces his wife

and she goes from him

and becomes another man’s wife,

    will he return to her?

Would not that land be greatly polluted?

You have played the harlot with many lovers;

    and would you return to me?

    says the Lord.

Lift up your eyes to the bare heights, and see!

    Where have you not been lain with?

By the waysides you have sat awaiting lovers

    like an Arab in the wilderness.

You have polluted the land

    with your vile harlotry.

Therefore the showers have been withheld,

    and the spring rain has not come;

yet you have a harlot’s brow,

    you refuse to be ashamed.

Have you not just now called to me,

    ‘My father, thou art the friend of my youth—

will he be angry for ever,

    will he be indignant to the end?’

Behold, you have spoken,

    but you have done all the evil that you could.

“I thought

    how I would set you among my sons,

and give you a pleasant land,

    a heritage most beauteous of all nations.

And I thought you would call me, My Father,

    and would not turn from following me.

Surely, as a faithless wife leaves her husband,

    so have you been faithless to me, O house of Israel,

    says the Lord ”

A voice on the bare heights is heard,

    the weeping and pleading of Israel’s sons

because they have perverted their way,

    they have forgotten the Lord their God.

“Return, O faithless sons,

    I will heal your faithlessness.”

“Behold, we come to thee;

    for thou art the Lord our God.

Truly the hills are a delusion,

    the orgies on the mountains.

Truly in the Lord our God

    is the salvation of Israel.”

“But from our youth the shameful thing has devoured all for which our fathers labored, their flocks and their herds, their sons and their daughters. Let us lie down in our shame, and let our dishonor cover us; for we have sinned against the Lord our God, we and our fathers, from our youth even to this day; and we have not obeyed the voice of the Lord our God.”

“If you return, O Israel,

    says the Lord,

    to me you should return.

If you remove your abominations from my presence,

    and do not waver,

and if you swear, ‘As the Lord lives,’

    in truth, in justice, and in uprightness,

then nations shall bless themselves in him,

    and in him shall they glory.”

For thus says the Lord to the men of Judah and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem:

“Break up your fallow ground,

    and sow not among thorns.

Circumcise yourselves to the Lord,

    remove the foreskin of your hearts,

    O men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem;

lest my wrath go forth like fire,

    and burn with none to quench it,

    because of the evil of your doings.”