## Saturday of week 28 in Ordinary Time

### Jeremiah 9:1-11,16-21

### A reproof of the people’s evil.

O that I had in the desert

    a wayfarers’ lodging place,

that I might leave my people

    and go away from them!

For they are all adulterers,

    a company of treacherous men.

They bend their tongue like a bow;

    falsehood and not truth has grown strong in the land;

for they proceed from evil to evil,

    and they do not know me, says the Lord.

Let every one beware of his neighbor,

    and put no trust in any brother;

for every brother is a supplanter,

    and every neighbor goes about as a slanderer.

Every one deceives his neighbor,

    and no one speaks the truth;

they have taught their tongue to speak lies;

    they commit iniquity and are too weary to repent.

Heaping oppression upon oppression, and deceit upon deceit,

    they refuse to know me, says the Lord.

Therefore thus says the Lord of hosts:

“Behold, I will refine them and test them,

    for what else can I do, because of my people?

Their tongue is a deadly arrow;

    it speaks deceitfully;

with his mouth each speaks peaceably to his neighbor,

    but in his heart he plans an ambush for him.

Shall I not punish them for these things? says the Lord;

    and shall I not avenge myself

    on a nation such as this?

“Take up weeping and wailing for the mountains,

    and a lamentation for the pastures of the wilderness,

because they are laid waste so that no one passes through,

    and the lowing of cattle is not heard;

both the birds of the air and the beasts

    have fled and are gone.

I will make Jerusalem a heap of ruins,

    a lair of jackals;

and I will make the cities of Judah a desolation,

    without inhabitant.”

Who is the man so wise that he can understand this? To whom has the mouth of the Lord spoken, that he may declare it? Why is the land ruined and laid waste like a wilderness, so that no one passes through?

    Thus says the Lord of hosts:

“Consider, and call for the mourning women to come;

    send for the skilful women to come;

let them make haste and raise a wailing over us,

    that our eyes may run down with tears,

    and our eyelids gush with water.

For a sound of wailing is heard from Zion:

    ‘How we are ruined!

    We are utterly shamed,

because we have left the land,

    because they have cast down our dwellings.’ ”

Hear, O women, the word of the Lord,

    and let your ear receive the word of his mouth;

teach to your daughters a lament,

    and each to her neighbor a dirge.

For death has come up into our windows,

    it has entered our palaces,

cutting off the children from the streets

    and the young men from the squares.

Speak, “Thus says the Lord:

‘The dead bodies of men shall fall

    like dung upon the open field,

like sheaves after the reaper,

    and none shall gather them.’ ”