## 29th Sunday in Ordinary Time

### 2 Kings 22:8,10-23:4,21-23

### The Book of the Law discovered and the Covenant renewed

Hilkiʹah the high priest said to Shaphan the secretary, “I have found the book of the law in the house of the Lord.” And Hilkiʹah gave the book to Shaphan, and he read it. Then Shaphan the secretary told the king, “Hilkiʹah the priest has given me a book.” And Shaphan read it before the king.

    And when the king heard the words of the book of the law, he rent his clothes. And the king commanded Hilkiʹah the priest, and Ahiʹkam the son of Shaphan, and Achbor the son of Micaiʹah, and Shaphan the secretary, and Asaiʹah the king’s servant, saying, “Go, inquire of the Lord for me, and for the people, and for all Judah, concerning the words of this book that has been found; for great is the wrath of the Lord that is kindled against us, because our fathers have not obeyed the words of this book, to do according to all that is written concerning us.”

    So Hilkiʹah the priest, and Ahiʹkam, and Achbor, and Shaphan, and Asaiʹah went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvah, son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe (now she dwelt in Jerusalem in the Second Quarter); and they talked with her. And she said to them, “Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: ‘Tell the man who sent you to me, Thus says the Lord, Behold, I will bring evil upon this place and upon its inhabitants, all the words of the book which the king of Judah has read. Because they have forsaken me and have burned incense to other gods, that they might provoke me to anger with all the work of their hands, therefore my wrath will be kindled against this place, and it will not be quenched. But as to the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of the Lord, thus shall you say to him, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Regarding the words which you have heard, because your heart was penitent, and you humbled yourself before the Lord, when you heard how I spoke against this place, and against its inhabitants, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and you have rent your clothes and wept before me, I also have heard you, says the Lord. Therefore, behold, I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace, and your eyes shall not see all the evil which I will bring upon this place.’ ” And they brought back word to the king.

Then the king sent, and all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem were gathered to him. And the king went up to the house of the Lord, and with him all the men of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the priests and the prophets, all the people, both small and great; and he read in their hearing all the words of the book of the covenant which had been found in the house of the Lord. And the king stood by the pillar and made a covenant before the Lord, to walk after the Lord and to keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes, with all his heart and all his soul, to perform the words of this covenant that were written in this book; and all the people joined in the covenant.

    And the king commanded Hilkiʹah, the high priest, and the priests of the second order, and the keepers of the threshold, to bring out of the temple of the Lord all the vessels made for Baʹal, for Asheʹrah, and for all the host of heaven; he burned them outside Jerusalem in the fields of the Kidron, and carried their ashes to Bethel. And the king commanded all the people, “Keep the passover to the Lord your God, as it is written in this book of the covenant.” For no such passover had been kept since the days of the judges who judged Israel, or during all the days of the kings of Israel or of the kings of Judah; but in the eighteenth year of King Josiʹah this passover was kept to the Lord in Jerusalem.