## Monday of week 29 in Ordinary Time

### Nahum 1:1-8,3:1-7,12-15

### God’s judgement against Nineveh

An oracle concerning Ninʹeveh. The book of the vision of Nahum of Elkosh.

The Lord is a jealous God and avenging,

    the Lord is avenging and wrathful;

the Lord takes vengeance on his adversaries

    and keeps wrath for his enemies.

The Lord is slow to anger and of great might,

    and the Lord will by no means clear the guilty.

His way is in whirlwind and storm,

    and the clouds are the dust of his feet.

He rebukes the sea and makes it dry,

    he dries up all the rivers;

Bashan and Carmel wither,

    the bloom of Lebanon fades.

The mountains quake before him,

    the hills melt;

the earth is laid waste before him,

    the world and all that dwell therein.

Who can stand before his indignation?

    Who can endure the heat of his anger?

His wrath is poured out like fire,

    and the rocks are broken asunder by him.

The Lord is good,

    a stronghold in the day of trouble;

    he knows those who take refuge in him.

But with an overflowing flood

    he will make a full end of his adversaries,

    and will pursue his enemies into darkness.

Woe to the bloody city,

all full of lies and booty—

    no end to the plunder!

The crack of whip, and rumble of wheel,

    galloping horse and bounding chariot!

Horsemen charging,

    flashing sword and glittering spear,

hosts of slain,

    heaps of corpses,

dead bodies without end—

    they stumble over the bodies!

And all for the countless harlotries of the harlot,

    graceful and of deadly charms,

who betrays nations with her harlotries,

    and peoples with her charms.

Behold, I am against you,

    says the Lord of hosts,

    and will lift up your skirts over your face;

and I will let nations look on your nakedness

    and kingdoms on your shame.

I will throw filth at you

    and treat you with contempt,

    and make you a gazing-stock.

And all who look on you will shrink from you and say,

Wasted is Ninʹeveh; who will bemoan her?

    whence shall I seek comforters for her?

All your fortresses are like fig trees

    with first-ripe figs—

if shaken they fall

    into the mouth of the eater.

Behold, your troops

    are women in your midst.

The gates of your land

    are wide open to your foes;

    fire has devoured your bars.

Draw water for the siege,

    strengthen your forts;

go into the clay,

    tread the mortar,

    take hold of the brick mold!

There will the fire devour you,

    the sword will cut you off.