## Tuesday of week 30 in Ordinary Time

### Jeremiah 36:1-10,21-32

### The book of Jeremiah’s prophecies is burned by the king

In the fourth year of Jehoiʹakim the son of Josiʹah, king of Judah, this word came to Jeremiah from the Lord: “Take a scroll and write on it all the words that I have spoken to you against Israel and Judah and all the nations, from the day I spoke to you, from the days of Josiʹah until today. It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil which I intend to do to them, so that every one may turn from his evil way, and that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin.”

    Then Jeremiah called Baruch the son of Neriʹah, and Baruch wrote upon a scroll at the dictation of Jeremiah all the words of the Lord which he had spoken to him. And Jeremiah ordered Baruch, saying, “I am debarred from going to the house of the Lord; so you are to go, and on a fast day in the hearing of all the people in the Lord’s house you shall read the words of the Lord from the scroll which you have written at my dictation. You shall read them also in the hearing of all the men of Judah who come out of their cities. It may be that their supplication will come before the Lord, and that every one will turn from his evil way, for great is the anger and wrath that the Lord has pronounced against this people.” And Baruch the son of Neriʹah did all that Jeremiah the prophet ordered him about reading from the scroll the words of the Lord in the Lord’s house.

    In the fifth year of Jehoiʹakim the son of Josiʹah, king of Judah, in the ninth month, all the people in Jerusalem and all the people who came from the cities of Judah to Jerusalem proclaimed a fast before the Lord. Then, in the hearing of all the people, Baruch read the words of Jeremiah from the scroll, in the house of the Lord, in the chamber of Gemariʹah the son of Shaphan the secretary, which was in the upper court, at the entry of the New Gate of the Lord’s house.

Then the king sent Jehuʹdi to get the scroll, and he took it from the chamber of Elishʹama the secretary; and Jehuʹdi read it to the king and all the princes who stood beside the king. It was the ninth month, and the king was sitting in the winter house and there was a fire burning in the brazier before him. As Jehuʹdi read three or four columns, the king would cut them off with a penknife and throw them into the fire in the brazier, until the entire scroll was consumed in the fire that was in the brazier. Yet neither the king, nor any of his servants who heard all these words, was afraid, nor did they rend their garments. Even when Elnaʹthan and Delaiʹah and Gemariʹah urged the king not to burn the scroll, he would not listen to them. And the king commanded Jerahʹmeel the king’s son and Seraiʹah the son of Azʹri-el and Shelemiʹah the son of Abdeel to seize Baruch the secretary and Jeremiah the prophet, but the Lord hid them.

Now, after the king had burned the scroll with the words which Baruch wrote at Jeremiah’s dictation, the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah: “Take another scroll and write on it all the former words that were in the first scroll, which Jehoiʹakim the king of Judah has burned. And concerning Jehoiʹakim king of Judah you shall say, ‘Thus says the Lord, You have burned this scroll, saying, “Why have you written in it that the king of Babylon will certainly come and destroy this land, and will cut off from it man and beast?” Therefore thus says the Lord concerning Jehoiʹakim king of Judah, He shall have none to sit upon the throne of David, and his dead body shall be cast out to the heat by day and the frost by night. And I will punish him and his offspring and his servants for their iniquity; I will bring upon them, and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and upon the men of Judah, all the evil that I have pronounced against them, but they would not hear.’ ”

    Then Jeremiah took another scroll and gave it to Baruch the scribe, the son of Neriʹah, who wrote on it at the dictation of Jeremiah all the words of the scroll which Jehoiʹakim king of Judah had burned in the fire; and many similar words were added to them.