## Monday of week 31 in Ordinary Time

### Jeremiah 37:21,38:14-28

### The imprisoned Jeremiah exhorts King Zedekiah to peace

King Zedekiʹah gave orders, and they committed Jeremiah to the court of the guard; and a loaf of bread was given him daily from the bakers’ street, until all the bread of the city was gone. So Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard.

King Zedekiʹah sent for Jeremiah the prophet and received him at the third entrance of the temple of the Lord. The king said to Jeremiah, “I will ask you a question; hide nothing from me.” Jeremiah said to Zedekiʹah, “If I tell you, will you not be sure to put me to death? And if I give you counsel, you will not listen to me.” Then King Zedekiʹah swore secretly to Jeremiah, “As the Lord lives, who made our souls, I will not put you to death or deliver you into the hand of these men who seek your life.”

    Then Jeremiah said to Zedekiʹah, “Thus says the Lord, the God of hosts, the God of Israel, If you will surrender to the princes of the king of Babylon, then your life shall be spared, and this city shall not be burned with fire, and you and your house shall live. But if you do not surrender to the princes of the king of Babylon, then this city shall be given into the hand of the Chaldeʹans, and they shall burn it with fire, and you shall not escape from their hand.” King Zedekiʹah said to Jeremiah, “I am afraid of the Jews who have deserted to the Chaldeʹans, lest I be handed over to them and they abuse me.” Jeremiah said, “You shall not be given to them. Obey now the voice of the Lord in what I say to you, and it shall be well with you, and your life shall be spared. But if you refuse to surrender, this is the vision which the Lord has shown to me: Behold, all the women left in the house of the king of Judah were being led out to the princes of the king of Babylon and were saying,

‘Your trusted friends have deceived you

    and prevailed against you;

now that your feet are sunk in the mire,

    they turn away from you.’

All your wives and your sons shall be led out to the Chaldeʹans, and you yourself shall not escape from their hand, but shall be seized by the king of Babylon; and this city shall be burned with fire.”

    Then Zedekiʹah said to Jeremiah, “Let no one know of these words and you shall not die. If the princes hear that I have spoken with you and come to you and say to you, ‘Tell us what you said to the king and what the king said to you; hide nothing from us and we will not put you to death,’ then you shall say to them, ‘I made a humble plea to the king that he would not send me back to the house of Jonathan to die there.’” Then all the princes came to Jeremiah and asked him, and he answered them as the king had instructed him. So they left off speaking with him, for the conversation had not been overheard. And Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard until the day that Jerusalem was taken.