## Tuesday of week 31 in Ordinary Time

### Jeremiah 32:6-10,16,24-40

### The imprisoned Jeremiah buys a field as a sign of hope

Jeremiah said, “The word of the Lord came to me: Behold, Hanʹamel the son of Shallum your uncle will come to you and say, ‘Buy my field which is at Anʹathoth, for the right of redemption by purchase is yours.’ Then Hanʹamel my cousin came to me in the court of the guard, in accordance with the word of the Lord, and said to me, ‘Buy my field which is at Anʹathoth in the land of Benjamin, for the right of possession and redemption is yours; buy it for yourself.’ Then I knew that this was the word of the Lord.

    “And I bought the field at Anʹathoth from Hanʹamel my cousin, and weighed out the money to him, seventeen shekels of silver. I signed the deed, sealed it, got witnesses, and weighed the money on scales. 

    “After I had given the deed of purchase to Baruch the son of Neriʹah, I prayed to the Lord, saying: 

    Behold, the siege mounds have come up to the city to take it, and because of sword and famine and pestilence the city is given into the hands of the Chaldeʹans who are fighting against it. What thou didst speak has come to pass, and behold, thou seest it. Yet thou, O Lord God, hast said to me, “Buy the field for money and get witnesses”—though the city is given into the hands of the Chaldeʹans.’ ”

The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah: “Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh; is anything too hard for me? Therefore, thus says the Lord: Behold, I am giving this city into the hands of the Chaldeʹans and into the hand of Nebuchadrezʹzar king of Babylon, and he shall take it. The Chaldeʹans who are fighting against this city shall come and set this city on fire, and burn it, with the houses on whose roofs incense has been offered to Baʹal and drink offerings have been poured out to other gods, to provoke me to anger. For the sons of Israel and the sons of Judah have done nothing but evil in my sight from their youth; the sons of Israel have done nothing but provoke me to anger by the work of their hands, says the Lord. This city has aroused my anger and wrath, from the day it was built to this day, so that I will remove it from my sight because of all the evil of the sons of Israel and the sons of Judah which they did to provoke me to anger—their kings and their princes, their priests and their prophets, the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. They have turned to me their back and not their face; and though I have taught them persistently they have not listened to receive instruction. They set up their abominations in the house which is called by my name, to defile it. They built the high places of Baʹal in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to offer up their sons and daughters to Molech, though I did not command them, nor did it enter into my mind, that they should do this abomination, to cause Judah to sin.

    “Now therefore thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, concerning this city of which you say, ‘It is given into the hand of the king of Babylon by sword, by famine, and by pestilence’: Behold, I will gather them from all the countries to which I drove them in my anger and my wrath and in great indignation; I will bring them back to this place, and I will make them dwell in safety. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God. I will give them one heart and one way, that they may fear me for ever, for their own good and the good of their children after them. I will make with them an everlasting covenant, that I will not turn away from doing good to them; and I will put the fear of me in their hearts, that they may not turn from me. 