## Wednesday of week 31 in Ordinary Time

### Jeremiah 30:18-31:9

### Promises of Israel’s restoration

“Thus says the Lord:

Behold, I will restore the fortunes of the tents of Jacob,

    and have compassion on his dwellings;

the city shall be rebuilt upon its mound,

    and the palace shall stand where it used to be.

Out of them shall come songs of thanksgiving,

    and the voices of those who make merry.

I will multiply them, and they shall not be few;

    I will make them honored, and they shall not be small.

Their children shall be as they were of old,

    and their congregation shall be established before me;

    and I will punish all who oppress them.

Their prince shall be one of themselves,

    their ruler shall come forth from their midst;

I will make him draw near, and he shall approach me,

    for who would dare of himself to approach me?

    says the Lord.

And you shall be my people,

    and I will be your God.”

Behold the storm of the Lord!

    Wrath has gone forth,

a whirling tempest;

    it will burst upon the head of the wicked.

The fierce anger of the Lord will not turn back

    until he has executed and accomplished

    the intents of his mind.

In the latter days you will understand this.

“At that time, says the Lord, I will be the God of all the families of Israel, and they shall be my people.”

Thus says the Lord:

“The people who survived the sword

    found grace in the wilderness;

when Israel sought for rest,

    the Lord appeared to him from afar.

I have loved you with an everlasting love;

    therefore I have continued my faithfulness to you.

Again I will build you, and you shall be built,

    O virgin Israel!

Again you shall adorn yourself with timbrels,

    and shall go forth in the dance of the merrymakers.

Again you shall plant vineyards

    upon the mountains of Samarʹia;

the planters shall plant,

    and shall enjoy the fruit.

For there shall be a day when watchmen will call

    in the hill country of Eʹphraim:

‘Arise, and let us go up to Zion,

    to the Lord our God.’”

For thus says the Lord:

“Sing aloud with gladness for Jacob,

    and raise shouts for the chief of the nations;

proclaim, give praise, and say,

    ‘The Lord has saved his people,

    the remnant of Israel.’

Behold, I will bring them from the north country,

    and gather them from the farthest parts of the earth,

among them the blind and the lame,

    the woman with child and her who is in travail, together;

    a great company, they shall return here.

With weeping they shall come,

    and with consolations I will lead them back,

I will make them walk by brooks of water,

    in a straight path in which they shall not stumble;

for I am a father to Israel,

    and Eʹphraim is my first-born.