## Friday of week 13 in Ordinary Time

### Nehemiah 12:27-47

### The dedication of the walls of Jerusalem

And at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought the Levites in all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem to celebrate the dedication with gladness, with thanksgivings and with singing, with cymbals, harps, and lyres. And the sons of the singers gathered together from the circuit round Jerusalem and from the villages of the Netophʹathites; also from Beth-gilgal and from the region of Geba and Azʹmaveth; for the singers had built for themselves villages around Jerusalem. And the priests and the Levites purified themselves; and they purified the people and the gates and the wall.

    Then I brought up the princes of Judah upon the wall, and appointed two great companies which gave thanks and went in procession. One went to the right upon the wall to the Dung Gate; and after them went Hoshaiʹah and half of the princes of Judah, and Azariʹah, Ezra, Meshulʹlam, Judah, Benjamin, Shemaiʹah, and Jeremiah, and certain of the priests’ sons with trumpets: Zechariʹah the son of Jonathan, son of Shemaiʹah, son of Mattaniʹah, son of Micaiʹah, son of Zaccur, son of Asaph; and his kinsmen, Shemaiʹah, Azʹarel, Milʹalai, Gilʹalai, Maʹai, Nethanʹel, Judah, and Hanaʹni, with the musical instruments of David the man of God; and Ezra the scribe went before them. At the Fountain Gate they went up straight before them by the stairs of the city of David, at the ascent of the wall, above the house of David, to the Water Gate on the east.

    The other company of those who gave thanks went to the left, and I followed them with half of the people, upon the wall, above the Tower of the Ovens, to the Broad Wall, and above the Gate of Eʹphraim, and by the Old Gate, and by the Fish Gate and the Tower of Hananʹel and the Tower of the Hundred, to the Sheep Gate; and they came to a halt at the Gate of the Guard. So both companies of those who gave thanks stood in the house of God, and I and half of the officials with me; and the priests Eliʹakim, Ma-aseiʹah, Miniʹamin, Micaiʹah, Eli-o-eʹnai, Zechariʹah, and Hananiʹah, with trumpets; and Ma-aseiʹah, Shemaiʹah, Eleaʹzar, Uzzi, Jeho-haʹnan, Malchiʹjah, Elam, and Ezer. And the singers sang with Jezrahiʹah as their leader. And they offered great sacrifices that day and rejoiced, for God had made them rejoice with great joy; the women and children also rejoiced. And the joy of Jerusalem was heard afar off.

On that day men were appointed over the chambers for the stores, the contributions, the first fruits, and the tithes, to gather into them the portions required by the law for the priests and for the Levites according to the fields of the towns; for Judah rejoiced over the priests and the Levites who ministered. And they performed the service of their God and the service of purification, as did the singers and the gatekeepers, according to the command of David and his son Solomon. For in the days of David and Asaph of old there was a chief of the singers, and there were songs of praise and thanksgiving to God. And all Israel in the days of Zerubʹbabel and in the days of Nehemiʹah gave the daily portions for the singers and the gatekeepers; and they set apart that which was for the Levites; and the Levites set apart that which was for the sons of Aaron.