## Saturday of week 13 in Ordinary Time

### Isaiah 59:1-14

### Repentance and salvation

Behold, the Lord’s hand is not shortened, that it cannot save,

    or his ear dull, that it cannot hear;

but your iniquities have made a separation

    between you and your God,

and your sins have hid his face from you

    so that he does not hear.

For your hands are defiled with blood

    and your fingers with iniquity;

your lips have spoken lies,

    your tongue mutters wickedness.

No one enters suit justly,

    no one goes to law honestly;

they rely on empty pleas, they speak lies,

    they conceive mischief and bring forth iniquity.

They hatch adders’ eggs,

    they weave the spider’s web;

he who eats their eggs dies,

    and from one which is crushed a viper is hatched.

Their webs will not serve as clothing;

    men will not cover themselves with what they make.

Their works are works of iniquity,

    and deeds of violence are in their hands.

Their feet run to evil,

    and they make haste to shed innocent blood;

their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity,

    desolation and destruction are in their highways.

The way of peace they know not,

    and there is no justice in their paths;

they have made their roads crooked,

    no one who goes in them knows peace.

Therefore justice is far from us,

    and righteousness does not overtake us;

we look for light, and behold, darkness,

    and for brightness, but we walk in gloom.

We grope for the wall like the blind,

    we grope like those who have no eyes;

we stumble at noon as in the twilight,

    among those in full vigor we are like dead men.

We all growl like bears,

    we moan and moan like doves;

we look for justice, but there is none;

    for salvation, but it is far from us.

For our transgressions are multiplied before thee,

    and our sins testify against us;

for our transgressions are with us,

    and we know our iniquities:

transgressing, and denying the Lord,

    and turning away from following our God,

speaking oppression and revolt,

    conceiving and uttering from the heart lying words.

Justice is turned back,

    and righteousness stands afar off;

for truth has fallen in the public squares,

    and uprightness cannot enter.