## Tuesday of week 15 in Ordinary Time

### Job 3:1-26

### Job’s lament

Job opened his mouth and cursed the day of his birth. And Job said:

“Let the day perish wherein I was born,

    and the night which said,

    ‘A man-child is conceived.’

Let that day be darkness!

    May God above not seek it,

    nor light shine upon it.

Let gloom and deep darkness claim it.

    Let clouds dwell upon it;

    let the blackness of the day terrify it.

That night—let thick darkness seize it!

    let it not rejoice among the days of the year,

    let it not come into the number of the months.

Yea, let that night be barren;

    let no joyful cry be heard in it.

Let those curse it who curse the day,

    who are skilled to rouse up Leviʹathan.

Let the stars of its dawn be dark;

    let it hope for light, but have none,

    nor see the eyelids of the morning;

because it did not shut the doors of my mother’s womb,

    nor hide trouble from my eyes.

“Why did I not die at birth,

    come forth from the womb and expire?

Why did the knees receive me?

    Or why the breasts, that I should suck?

For then I should have lain down and been quiet;

    I should have slept; then I should have been at rest,

with kings and counselors of the earth

    who rebuilt ruins for themselves,

or with princes who had gold,

    who filled their houses with silver.

Or why was I not as a hidden untimely birth,

    as infants that never see the light?

There the wicked cease from troubling,

    and there the weary are at rest.

There the prisoners are at ease together;

    they hear not the voice of the taskmaster.

The small and the great are there,

    and the slave is free from his master.

“Why is light given to him that is in misery,

    and life to the bitter in soul,

who long for death, but it comes not,

    and dig for it more than for hid treasures;

who rejoice exceedingly,

    and are glad, when they find the grave?

Why is light given to a man whose way is hid,

    whom God has hedged in?

For my sighing comes as my bread,

    and my groanings are poured out like water.

For the thing that I fear comes upon me,

    and what I dread befalls me.

I am not at ease, nor am I quiet;

    I have no rest; but trouble comes.”