## Friday of week 15 in Ordinary Time

### Job 6:1-30

### The response of Job, afflicted and abandoned

Then Job answered:

“O that my vexation were weighed,

    and all my calamity laid in the balances!

For then it would be heavier than the sand of the sea;

    therefore my words have been rash.

For the arrows of the Almighty are in me;

    my spirit drinks their poison;

    the terrors of God are arrayed against me.

Does the wild ass bray when he has grass,

    or the ox low over his fodder?

Can that which is tasteless be eaten without salt,

    or is there any taste in the slime of the purslane?

My appetite refuses to touch them;

    they are as food that is loathsome to me.

“O that I might have my request,

    and that God would grant my desire;

that it would please God to crush me,

    that he would let loose his hand and cut me off!

This would be my consolation;

    I would even exult in pain unsparing;

    for I have not denied the words of the Holy One.

What is my strength, that I should wait?

    And what is my end, that I should be patient?

Is my strength the strength of stones,

    or is my flesh bronze?

In truth I have no help in me,

    and any resource is driven from me.

“He who withholds kindness from a friend

    forsakes the fear of the Almighty.

My brethren are treacherous as a torrent-bed,

    as freshets that pass away,

which are dark with ice,

    and where the snow hides itself.

In time of heat they disappear;

    when it is hot, they vanish from their place.

The caravans turn aside from their course;

    they go up into the waste, and perish.

The caravans of Tema look,

    the travelers of Sheba hope.

They are disappointed because they were confident;

    they come thither and are confounded.

Such you have now become to me;

    you see my calamity, and are afraid.

Have I said, ‘Make me a gift’?

    Or, ‘From your wealth offer a bribe for me’?

Or, ‘Deliver me from the adversary’s hand’?

    Or, ‘Ransom me from the hand of oppressors’?

“Teach me, and I will be silent;

    make me understand how I have erred.

How forceful are honest words!

    But what does reproof from you reprove?

Do you think that you can reprove words,

    when the speech of a despairing man is wind?

You would even cast lots over the fatherless,

    and bargain over your friend.

“But now, be pleased to look at me;

    for I will not lie to your face.

Turn, I pray, let no wrong be done.

    Turn now, my vindication is at stake.

Is there any wrong on my tongue?

    Cannot my taste discern calamity?”