## Tuesday of week 16 in Ordinary Time

### Job 13:13-14:6

### Job appeals to God’s judgement

Job answered his friends, saying:

“Let me have silence, and I will speak,

    and let come on me what may.

I will take my flesh in my teeth,

    and put my life in my hand.

Behold, he will slay me; I have no hope;

    yet I will defend my ways to his face.

This will be my salvation,

    that a godless man shall not come before him.

Listen carefully to my words,

    and let my declaration be in your ears.

Behold, I have prepared my case;

    I know that I shall be vindicated.

Who is there that will contend with me?

    For then I would be silent and die.

Only grant two things to me,

    then I will not hide myself from thy face:

withdraw thy hand far from me,

    and let not dread of thee terrify me.

Then call, and I will answer;

    or let me speak, and do thou reply to me.

How many are my iniquities and my sins?

    Make me know my transgression and my sin.

Why dost thou hide thy face,

    and count me as thy enemy?

Wilt thou frighten a driven leaf

    and pursue dry chaff?

For thou writest bitter things against me,

    and makest me inherit the iniquities of my youth.

Thou puttest my feet in the stocks,

    and watchest all my paths;

    thou settest a bound to the soles of my feet.

Man wastes away like a rotten thing,

    like a garment that is moth-eaten.

“Man that is born of a woman

    is of few days, and full of trouble.

He comes forth like a flower, and withers;

    he flees like a shadow, and continues not.

And dost thou open thy eyes upon such a one

    and bring him into judgment with thee?

Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean?

    There is not one.

Since his days are determined,

    and the number of his months is with thee,

    and thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass,

look away from him, and desist,

    that he may enjoy, like a hireling, his day.”