## Friday of week 16 in Ordinary Time

### Job 22:1-30

### Eliphaz exhorts Job to peace through seeking God

Then Eliʹphaz the Teʹmanite answered:

“Can a man be profitable to God?

    Surely he who is wise is profitable to himself.

Is it any pleasure to the Almighty if you are righteous,

    or is it gain to him if you make your ways blameless?

Is it for your fear of him that he reproves you,

    and enters into judgment with you?

Is not your wickedness great?

    There is no end to your iniquities.

For you have exacted pledges of your brothers for nothing,

    and stripped the naked of their clothing.

You have given no water to the weary to drink,

    and you have withheld bread from the hungry.

The man with power possessed the land,

    and the favored man dwelt in it.

You have sent widows away empty,

    and the arms of the fatherless were crushed.

Therefore snares are round about you,

    and sudden terror overwhelms you;

your light is darkened, so that you cannot see,

    and a flood of water covers you.

“Is not God high in the heavens?

    See the highest stars, how lofty they are!

Therefore you say, ‘What does God know?

    Can he judge through the deep darkness?

Thick clouds enwrap him, so that he does not see,

    and he walks on the vault of heaven.’

Will you keep to the old way

    which wicked men have trod?

They were snatched away before their time;

    their foundation was washed away.

They said to God, ‘Depart from us,’

    and ‘What can the Almighty do to us?’

Yet he filled their houses with good things—

    but the counsel of the wicked is far from me.

The righteous see it and are glad;

    the innocent laugh them to scorn,

saying, ‘Surely our adversaries are cut off,

    and what they left the fire has consumed.’

“Agree with God, and be at peace;

    thereby good will come to you.

Receive instruction from his mouth,

    and lay up his words in your heart.

If you return to the Almighty and humble yourself,

    if you remove unrighteousness far from your tents,

if you lay gold in the dust,

    and gold of Ophir among the stones of the torrent bed,

and if the Almighty is your gold,

    and your precious silver;

then you will delight yourself in the Almighty,

    and lift up your face to God.

You will make your prayer to him, and he will hear you;

    and you will pay your vows.

You will decide on a matter, and it will be established for you,

    and light will shine on your ways.

For God abases the proud,

    but he saves the lowly.

He delivers the innocent man;

    you will be delivered through the cleanness of your hands.”