## Saturday of week 16 in Ordinary Time

### Job 23:1-24:12

### A guiltless Job answers the impious

Then Job answered:

“Today also my complaint is bitter,

    his hand is heavy in spite of my groaning.

Oh, that I knew where I might find him,

    that I might come even to his seat!

I would lay my case before him

    and fill my mouth with arguments.

I would learn what he would answer me,

    and understand what he would say to me.

Would he contend with me in the greatness of his power?

    No; he would give heed to me.

There an upright man could reason with him,

    and I should be acquitted for ever by my judge.

“Behold, I go forward, but he is not there;

    and backward, but I cannot perceive him;

on the left hand I seek him, but I cannot behold him;

    I turn to the right hand, but I cannot see him.

But he knows the way that I take;

    when he has tried me, I shall come forth as gold.

My foot has held fast to his steps;

    I have kept his way and have not turned aside.

I have not departed from the commandment of his lips;

    I have treasured in my bosom the words of his mouth.

But he is unchangeable and who can turn him?

    What he desires, that he does.

For he will complete what he appoints for me;

    and many such things are in his mind.

Therefore I am terrified at his presence;

    when I consider, I am in dread of him.

God has made my heart faint;

    the Almighty has terrified me;

for I am hemmed in by darkness,

    and thick darkness covers my face.

“Why are not times of judgment kept by the Almighty,

    and why do those who know him never see his days?

Men remove landmarks;

    they seize flocks and pasture them.

They drive away the ass of the fatherless;

    they take the widow’s ox for a pledge.

They thrust the poor off the road;

    the poor of the earth all hide themselves.

Behold, like wild asses in the desert

    they go forth to their toil,

seeking prey in the wilderness

    as food for their children.

They gather their fodder in the field

    and they glean the vineyard of the wicked man.

They lie all night naked, without clothing,

    and have no covering in the cold.

They are wet with the rain of the mountains,

    and cling to the rock for want of shelter.

(There are those who snatch the fatherless child from the breast,

    and take in pledge the infant of the poor.)

They go about naked, without clothing;

    hungry, they carry the sheaves;

among the olive rows of the wicked they make oil;

    they tread the wine presses, but suffer thirst.

From out of the city the dying groan,

    and the soul of the wounded cries for help;

    yet God pays no attention to their prayer.”