## Monday of week 17 in Ordinary Time

### Job 29:1-10,30:1,9-23

### Job laments his affliction

Job again took up his discourse, and said:

“Oh, that I were as in the months of old,

    as in the days when God watched over me;

when his lamp shone upon my head,

    and by his light I walked through darkness;

as I was in my autumn days,

    when the friendship of God was upon my tent;

when the Almighty was yet with me,

    when my children were about me;

when my steps were washed with milk,

    and the rock poured out for me streams of oil!

When I went out to the gate of the city,

    when I prepared my seat in the square,

the young men saw me and withdrew,

    and the aged rose and stood;

the princes refrained from talking,

    and laid their hand on their mouth;

the voice of the nobles was hushed,

    and their tongue cleaved to the roof of their mouth.

“But now they make sport of me,

men who are younger than I,

whose fathers I would have disdained

    to set with the dogs of my flock.

“And now I have become their song,

    I am a byword to them.

They abhor me, they keep aloof from me;

    they do not hesitate to spit at the sight of me.

Because God has loosed my cord and humbled me,

    they have cast off restraint in my presence.

On my right hand the rabble rise,

    they drive me forth,

    they cast up against me their ways of destruction.

They break up my path,

    they promote my calamity;

    no one restrains them.

As through a wide breach they come;

    amid the crash they roll on.

Terrors are turned upon me;

    my honor is pursued as by the wind,

    and my prosperity has passed away like a cloud.

“And now my soul is poured out within me;

    days of affliction have taken hold of me.

The night racks my bones,

    and the pain that gnaws me takes no rest.

With violence it seizes my garment;

    it binds me about like the collar of my tunic.

God has cast me into the mire,

    and I have become like dust and ashes.

I cry to thee and thou dost not answer me;

    I stand, and thou dost not heed me.

Thou hast turned cruel to me;

    with the might of thy hand thou dost persecute me.

Thou liftest me up on the wind, thou makest me ride on it,

    and thou tossest me about in the roar of the storm.

Yea, I know that thou wilt bring me to death,

    and to the house appointed for all living.”