## Friday of week 17 in Ordinary Time

### Job 40:6-24,42:1-6

### Job submits himself to the Divine Majesty

Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind:

“Gird up your loins like a man;

    I will question you, and you declare to me.

Will you even put me in the wrong?

    Will you condemn me that you may be justified?

Have you an arm like God,

    and can you thunder with a voice like his?

“Deck yourself with majesty and dignity;

    clothe yourself with glory and splendor.

Pour forth the overflowings of your anger,

    and look on every one that is proud, and abase him.

Look on every one that is proud, and bring him low;

    and tread down the wicked where they stand.

Hide them all in the dust together;

    bind their faces in the world below.

Then will I also acknowledge to you,

    that your own right hand can give you victory.

“Behold, Beʹhemoth,

    which I made as I made you;

    he eats grass like an ox.

Behold, his strength in his loins,

    and his power in the muscles of his belly.

He makes his tail stiff like a cedar;

    the sinews of his thighs are knit together.

His bones are tubes of bronze,

    his limbs like bars of iron.

“He is the first of the works of God;

    let him who made him bring near his sword!

For the mountains yield food for him

    where all the wild beasts play.

Under the lotus plants he lies,

    in the covert of the reeds and in the marsh.

For his shade the lotus trees cover him;

    the willows of the brook surround him.

Behold, if the river is turbulent he is not frightened;

    he is confident though Jordan rushes against his mouth.

Can one take him with hooks,

    or pierce his nose with a snare?”

Then Job answered the Lord:

“I know that thou canst do all things,

    and that no purpose of thine can be thwarted.

‘Who is this that hides counsel without knowledge?’

Therefore I have uttered what I did not understand,

    things too wonderful for me, which I did not know.

‘Hear, and I will speak;

    I will question you, and you declare to me.’

I had heard of thee by the hearing of the ear,

    but now my eye sees thee;

therefore I despise myself,

    and repent in dust and ashes.”