## 24th Sunday in Ordinary Time

### Esther 1:1-3,9-13,15-16,19,2:5-10,16-17

### The rejection of Vashti and selection of Esther

In the days of Ahasu-eʹrus, the Ahasu-eʹrus who reigned from India to Ethiopia over one hundred and twenty-seven provinces, in those days when King Ahasu-eʹrus sat on his royal throne in Susa the capital, in the third year of his reign he gave a banquet for all his princes and servants, the army chiefs of Persia and Media and the nobles and governors of the provinces being before him.

    Queen Vashti also gave a banquet for the women in the palace which belonged to King Ahasu-eʹrus.

    On the seventh day, when the heart of the king was merry with wine, he commanded Mehuʹman, Biztha, Harboʹna, Bigtha and Abagʹtha, Zethar and Carkas, the seven eunuchs who served King Ahasu-eʹrus as chamberlains, to bring Queen Vashti before the king with her royal crown, in order to show the peoples and the princes her beauty; for she was fair to behold. But Queen Vashti refused to come at the king’s command conveyed by the eunuchs. At this the king was enraged, and his anger burned within him.

    Then the king said to the wise men who knew the times—for this was the king’s procedure toward all who were versed in law and judgment, “According to the law, what is to be done to Queen Vashti, because she has not performed the command of King Ahasu-eʹrus conveyed by the eunuchs?” Then Memuʹcan said in presence of the king and the princes, “Not only to the king has Queen Vashti done wrong, but also to all the princes and all the peoples who are in all the provinces of King Ahasu-eʹrus. If it please the king, let a royal order go forth from him, and let it be written among the laws of the Persians and the Medes so that it may not be altered, that Vashti is to come no more before King Ahasu-eʹrus; and let the king give her royal position to another who is better than she.

    Now there was a Jew in Susa the capital whose name was Morʹdecai, the son of Jaʹir, son of Shimʹe-i, son of Kish, a Benjaminite, who had been carried away from Jerusalem among the captives carried away with Jeconiʹah king of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezʹzar king of Babylon had carried away. He had brought up Hadasʹsah, that is Esther, the daughter of his uncle, for she had neither father nor mother; the maiden was beautiful and lovely, and when her father and her mother died, Morʹdecai adopted her as his own daughter. So when the king’s order and his edict were proclaimed, and when many maidens were gathered in Susa the capital in custody of Hegai, Esther also was taken into the king’s palace and put in custody of Hegai who had charge of the women. And the maiden pleased him and won his favor; and he quickly provided her with her ointments and her portion of food, and with seven chosen maids from the king’s palace, and advanced her and her maids to the best place in the harem. Esther had not made known her people or kindred, for Morʹdecai had charged her not to make it known. And when Esther was taken to King Ahasu-eʹrus into his royal palace in the tenth month, which is the month of Tebeth, in the seventh year of his reign, the king loved Esther more than all the women, and she found grace and favor in his sight more than all the virgins, so that he set the royal crown on her head and made her queen instead of Vashti. 