## Saturday of week 24 in Ordinary Time

### Baruch 3:9-15,24-4:4

### Israel’s salvation is founded on wisdom

Hear the commandments of life, O Israel;

    give ear, and learn wisdom!

Why is it, O Israel, why is it that you are in the land of your enemies,

    that you are growing old in a foreign country,

that you are defiled with the dead,

    that you are counted among those in Hades?

You have forsaken the fountain of wisdom.

If you had walked in the way of God,

    you would be dwelling in peace for ever.

Learn where there is wisdom,

    where there is strength,

    where there is understanding,

that you may at the same time discern

    where there is length of days, and life,

    where there is light for the eyes, and peace.

Who has found her place?

    And who has entered her storehouses?

O Israel, how great is the house of God!

    And how vast the territory that he possesses!

It is great and has no bounds;

    it is high and immeasurable.

The giants were born there, who were famous of old,

    great in stature, expert in war.

God did not choose them,

    nor give them the way to knowledge;

so they perished because they had no wisdom,

    they perished through their folly.

Who has gone up into heaven, and taken her,

    and brought her down from the clouds?

Who has gone over the sea, and found her,

    and will buy her for pure gold?

No one knows the way to her,

    or is concerned about the path to her.

But he who knows all things knows her,

    he found her by his understanding.

He who prepared the earth for all time

    filled it with four-footed creatures;

he who sends forth the light, and it goes,

    called it, and it obeyed him in fear;

the stars shone in their watches, and were glad;

    he called them, and they said, “Here we are!”

    They shone with gladness for him who made them.

This is our God;

    no other can be compared to him!

He found the whole way to knowledge,

    and gave her to Jacob his servant

    and to Israel whom he loved.

Afterward she appeared upon earth

    and lived among men.

She is the book of the commandments of God,

    and the law that endures for ever.

All who hold her fast will live,

    and those who forsake her will die.

Turn, O Jacob, and take her;

    walk toward the shining of her light.

Do not give your glory to another,

    or your advantages to an alien people.

Happy are we, O Israel,

    for we know what is pleasing to God.