## Monday of week 25 in Ordinary Time

### Tobit 2:1-3:6

### The tribulation and prayer of Tobit

At our feast of Pentecost (the feast of Weeks) there was a good dinner. I took my place for the meal; the table was brought to me and various dishes were brought. Then I said to my son Tobias, ‘Go, my child, and seek out some poor, loyal-hearted man among our brothers exiled in Nineveh, and bring him to share my meal. I will wait until you come back, my child.’ So Tobias went out to look for some poor man among our brothers, but he came back again and said, ‘Father!’ I answered, ‘What is it, my child?’ He went on, ‘Father, one of our nation has just been murdered; he has been strangled and then thrown down in the market place; he is there still’. I sprang up at once, left my meal untouched, took the man from the market place and laid him in one of my rooms, waiting until sunset to bury him. I came in again and washed myself and ate my bread in sorrow, remembering the words of the prophet Amos concerning Bethel: 

Your feasts will be turned to mourning, 

and all your songs to lamentation. 

And I wept. When the sun was down, I went and dug a grave and buried him. My neighbours laughed and said, ‘See! He is not afraid any more.’ (You must remember that a price had been set on my head earlier for this very thing.) ‘The time before this he had to flee, yet here he is, beginning to bury the dead again.’ 

    That night I took a bath; then I went down into the courtyard and lay down by the courtyard wall. Since it was hot, I left my face uncovered. I did not know that there were sparrows in the wall above my head; their hot droppings fell into my eyes. White spots then formed, which I was obliged to have treated by the doctors. But the more ointments they tried me with, the more the spots blinded me, and in the end I became blind altogether. I remained without sight four years; all my brothers were distressed; and Ahikar provided for my upkeep for two years, until he left for Elymais. 

    My wife Anna then undertook woman’s work; she would spin wool and take cloth to weave; she used to deliver whatever had been ordered from her and then receive payment. Now on March the seventh she finished a piece of work and delivered it to her customers. They paid her all that was due, and into the bargain presented her with a kid for a meal. When the kid came into my house, it began to bleat. I called to my wife and said, ‘Where does this creature come from? Suppose it has been stolen! Quick, let the owners have it back; we have no right to eat stolen goods.’ She said, ‘No, it was a present given me over and above my wages’. I did not believe her, and told her to give it back to the owners (I blushed at this in her presence). Then she answered, ‘What about your own alms? What about your own good works? Everyone knows what return you have had for them.’ Then, sad at heart, I sighed and wept, and began this prayer of lamentation:

‘You are just, O Lord,

and just are all your works.

All your ways are grace and truth,

and you are the Judge of the world

‘Therefore, Lord, 

remember me, look on me. 

Do not punish me for my sins 

or for my heedless faults 

or for those of my fathers. 

‘For we have sinned against you 

and broken your commandments; 

and you have given us over to be plundered, 

to captivity and death, 

to be the talk, the laughing-stock and scorn 

of all the nations among whom you have dispersed us. 

‘Whereas all your decrees are true 

when you deal with me as my faults deserve, 

and those of my fathers, 

since we have neither kept your commandments 

nor walked in truth before you; so now, 

do with me as you will; 

be pleased to take my life from me; 

I desire to be delivered from earth 

and to become earth again. 

For death is better for me than life. 

I have been reviled without a cause 

and I am distressed beyond measure. 

‘Lord, I wait for the sentence you will give 

to deliver me from this affliction. 

Let me go away to my everlasting home; 

do not turn your face from me, O Lord. 

For it is better to die than still to live 

in the face of trouble that knows no pity; 

I am weary of hearing myself traduced.’