## Tuesday of week 25 in Ordinary Time

### Tobit 3:7-25

### Sarah's unhappiness and her prayer

On the same day, at Ecbatʹana in Media, it also happened that Sarah, the daughter of Ragʹuel, was reproached by her father’s maids, because she had been given to seven husbands, and the evil demon Asmodeʹus had slain each of them before he had been with her as his wife. So the maids said to her, “Do you not know that you strangle your husbands? You already have had seven and have had no benefit from any of them. Why do you beat us? If they are dead, go with them! May we never see a son or daughter of yours!”

When she heard these things she was deeply grieved, even to the thought of hanging herself. But she said, “I am the only child of my father; if I do this, it will be a disgrace to him, and I shall bring his old age down in sorrow to the grave.” So she prayed by her window and said, “Blessed art thou, O Lord my God, and blessed is thy holy and honored name for ever. May all thy works praise thee for ever. And now, O Lord, I have turned my eyes and my face toward thee. Command that I be released from the earth and that I hear reproach no more. Thou knowest, O Lord, that I am innocent of any sin with man, and that I did not stain my name or the name of my father in the land of my captivity. I am my father’s only child, and he has no child to be his heir, no near kinsman or kinsman’s son for whom I should keep myself as wife. Already seven husbands of mine are dead. Why should I live? But if it be not pleasing to thee to take my life, command that respect be shown to me and pity be taken upon me, and that I hear reproach no more.”

The prayer of both was heard in the presence of the glory of the great God. And Raphʹael was sent to heal the two of them: to scale away the white films of Tobit’s eyes; to give Sarah the daughter of Ragʹuel in marriage to Tobiʹas the son of Tobit, and to bind Asmodeʹus the evil demon, because Tobiʹas was entitled to possess her. At that very moment Tobit returned and entered his house and Sarah the daughter of Ragʹuel came down from her upper room.