## Friday of week 26 in Ordinary Time

### Judith 12:1-13:3

### Holofernes’ banquet

Holoferʹnes commanded his servants to bring Judith in where his silver dishes were kept, and ordered them to set a table for her with some of his own food and to serve her with his own wine. But Judith said, “I cannot eat it, lest it be an offense; but I will be provided from the things I have brought with me.” Holoferʹnes said to her, “If your supply runs out, where can we get more like it for you? For none of your people is here with us.” Judith replied, “As your soul lives, my lord, your servant will not use up the things I have with me before the Lord carries out by my hand what he has determined to do.”

    Then the servants of Holoferʹnes brought her into the tent, and she slept until midnight. Along toward the morning watch she arose and sent to Holoferʹnes and said, “Let my lord now command that your servant be permitted to go out and pray.” So Holoferʹnes commanded his guards not to hinder her. And she remained in the camp for three days, and went out each night to the valley of Bethuʹlia, and bathed at the spring in the camp. When she came up from the spring she prayed the Lord God of Israel to direct her way for the raising up of her people. So she returned clean and stayed in the tent until she ate her food toward evening.

On the fourth day Holoferʹnes held a banquet for his slaves only, and did not invite any of his officers. And he said to Bagoʹas, the eunuch who had charge of all his personal affairs, “Go now and persuade the Hebrew woman who is in your care to join us and eat and drink with us. For it will be a disgrace if we let such a woman go without enjoying her company, for if we do not embrace her she will laugh at us.” So Bagoʹas went out from the presence of Holoferʹnes, and approached her and said, “This beautiful maidservant will please come to my lord and be honored in his presence, and drink wine and be merry with us, and become today like one of the daughters of the Assyrians who serve in the house of Nebuchadnezʹzar.” And Judith said, “Who am I, to refuse my lord? Surely whatever pleases him I will do at once, and it will be a joy to me until the day of my death!” So she got up and arrayed herself in all her woman’s finery, and her maid went and spread on the ground for her before Holoferʹnes the soft fleeces which she had received from Bagoʹas for her daily use, so that she might recline on them when she ate.

    Then Judith came in and lay down, and Holoferʹnes’ heart was ravished with her and he was moved with great desire to possess her; for he had been waiting for an opportunity to deceive her, ever since the day he first saw her. So Holoferʹnes said to her. “Drink now, and be merry with us!” Judith said, “I will drink now, my lord, because my life means more to me today than in all the days since I was born.” Then she took and ate and drank before him what her maid had prepared. And Holoferʹnes was greatly pleased with her, and drank a great quantity of wine, much more than he had ever drunk in any one day since he was born.

When evening came, his slaves quickly withdrew, and Bagoʹas closed the tent from outside and shut out the attendants from his master’s presence; and they went to bed, for they all were weary because the banquet had lasted long. So Judith was left alone in the tent, with Holoferʹnes stretched out on his bed, for he was overcome with wine.

    Now Judith had told her maid to stand outside the bedchamber and to wait for her to come out, as she did every day; for she said she would be going out for her prayers. And she had said the same thing to Bagoʹas. 