## 27th Sunday in Ordinary Time

### Ecclesiasticus 1:1-25

### The mystery of Divine wisdom

All wisdom comes from the Lord

    and is with him for ever.

The sand of the sea, the drops of rain,

    and the days of eternity—who can count them?

The height of heaven, the breadth of the earth,

    the abyss, and wisdom—who can search them out?

Wisdom was created before all things,

    and prudent understanding from eternity.

The root of wisdom—to whom has it been revealed?

    Her clever devices—who knows them?

There is One who is wise, greatly to be feared,

    sitting upon his throne.

The Lord himself created wisdom;

    he saw her and apportioned her,

    he poured her out upon all his works.

She dwells with all flesh according to his gift,

    and he supplied her to those who love him.

The fear of the Lord is glory and exultation,

    and gladness and a crown of rejoicing.

The fear of the Lord delights the heart,

    and gives gladness and joy and long life.

With him who fears the Lord it will go well at the end;

    on the day of his death he will be blessed.

To fear the Lord is the beginning of wisdom;

    she is created with the faithful in the womb.

She made among men an eternal foundation,

    and among their descendants she will be trusted.

To fear the Lord is wisdom’s full measure;

    she satisfies men with her fruits;

she fills their whole house with desirable goods,

    and their storehouses with her produce.

The fear of the Lord is the crown of wisdom,

    making peace and perfect health to flourish.

He saw her and apportioned her;

    he rained down knowledge and discerning comprehension,

    and he exalted the glory of those who held her fast.

To fear the Lord is the root of wisdom,

    and her branches are long life.