## Tuesday of week 27 in Ordinary Time

### Ecclesiasticus 3:1-17

### Dutiful conduct towards one's parents

Listen to me your father, O children;

    and act accordingly, that you may be kept in safety.

For the Lord honored the father above the children,

    and he confirmed the right of the mother over her sons.

Whoever honors his father atones for sins,

    and whoever glorifies his mother is like one who lays up treasure.

Whoever honors his father will be gladdened by his own children,

    and when he prays he will be heard.

Whoever glorifies his father will have long life,

    and whoever obeys the Lord will refresh his mother;

    he will serve his parents as his masters.

Honor your father by word and deed,

    that a blessing from him may come upon you.

For a father’s blessing strengthens the houses of the children,

    but a mother’s curse uproots their foundations.

Do not glorify yourself by dishonoring your father,

    for your father’s dishonor is no glory to you.

For a man’s glory comes from honoring his father,

    and it is a disgrace for children not to respect their mother.

O son, help your father in his old age,

    and do not grieve him as long as he lives;

even if he is lacking in understanding, show forbearance;

    in all your strength do not despise him.

For kindness to a father will not be forgotten,

    and against your sins it will be credited to you;

in the day of your affliction it will be remembered in your favor;

    as frost in fair weather, your sins will melt away.

Whoever forsakes his father is like a blasphemer,

    and whoever angers his mother is cursed by the Lord.