## Saturday of week 27 in Ordinary Time

### Ecclesiasticus 7:22-36

### Duties towards children, parents, priests,and the poor

Do you have cattle? Look after them;

    if they are profitable to you, keep them.

Do you have children? Discipline them,

    and make them obedient from their youth.

Do you have daughters? Be concerned for their chastity,

    and do not show yourself too indulgent with them.

Give a daughter in marriage; you will have finished a great task.

    But give her to a man of understanding.

If you have a wife who pleases you, do not cast her out;

    but do not trust yourself to one whom you detest.

With all your heart honor your father,

    and do not forget the birth pangs of your mother.

Remember that through your parents you were born;

    and what can you give back to them that equals their gift to you?

With all your soul fear the Lord,

    and honor his priests.

With all your might love your Maker,

    and do not forsake his ministers.

Fear the Lord and honor the priest,

    and give him his portion, as is commanded you:

the first fruits, the guilt offering, the gift of the shoulders,

    the sacrifice of sanctification, and the first fruits of the holy things.

Stretch forth your hand to the poor,

    so that your blessing may be complete.

Give graciously to all the living,

    and withhold not kindness from the dead.

Do not fail those who weep,

    but mourn with those who mourn.

Do not shrink from visiting a sick man,

    because for such deeds you will be loved.

In all you do, remember the end of your life,

    and then you will never sin.