## Monday of week 28 in Ordinary Time

### Ecclesiasticus 11:12-30

### Put your trust in God alone

There is another who is slow and needs help,

    who lacks strength and abounds in poverty;

but the eyes of the Lord look upon him for his good;

    he lifts him out of his low estate

and raises up his head,

    so that many are amazed at him.

Good things and bad, life and death,

    poverty and wealth, come from the Lord.

The gift of the Lord endures for those who are godly,

    and what he approves will have lasting success.

There is a man who is rich through his diligence and self-denial,

    and this is the reward allotted to him:

when he says, “I have found rest,

    and now I shall enjoy my goods!”

he does not know how much time will pass

    until he leaves them to others and dies.

Stand by your covenant and attend to it,

    and grow old in your work.

Do not wonder at the works of a sinner,

    but trust in the Lord and keep at your toil;

for it is easy in the sight of the Lord

    to enrich a poor man quickly and suddenly.

The blessing of the Lord is the reward of the godly,

    and quickly God causes his blessing to flourish.

Do not say, “What do I need,

    and what prosperity could be mine in the future?”

Do not say, “I have enough,

    and what calamity could happen to me in the future?”

In the day of prosperity, adversity is forgotten,

    and in the day of adversity, prosperity is not remembered.

For it is easy in the sight of the Lord

    to reward a man on the day of death according to his conduct.

The misery of an hour makes one forget luxury,

    and at the close of a man’s life his deeds will be revealed.

Call no one happy before his death;

    a man will be known through his children.