## Tuesday of week 29 in Ordinary Time

### Ecclesiasticus 29:1-16,31:1-4

### On lending, alms and riches

He that shows mercy will lend to his neighbor,

    and he that strengthens him with his hand keeps the commandments.

Lend to your neighbor in the time of his need;

    and in turn, repay your neighbor promptly.

Confirm your word and keep faith with him,

    and on every occasion you will find what you need.

Many persons regard a loan as a windfall,

    and cause trouble to those who help them.

A man will kiss another’s hands until he gets a loan,

    and will lower his voice in speaking of his neighbor’s money;

but at the time for repayment he will delay,

    and will pay in words of unconcern,

    and will find fault with the time.

If the lender exert pressure, he will hardly get back half,

    and will regard that as a windfall.

If he does not, the borrower has robbed him of his money,

    and he has needlessly made him his enemy;

he will repay him with curses and reproaches,

    and instead of glory will repay him with dishonor.

Because of such wickedness, therefore, many have refused to lend;

    they have been afraid of being defrauded needlessly.

Nevertheless, be patient with a man in humble circumstances,

    and do not make him wait for your alms.

Help a poor man for the commandment’s sake,

    and because of his need do not send him away empty.

Lose your silver for the sake of a brother or a friend,

    and do not let it rust under a stone and be lost.

Lay up your treasure according to the commandments of the Most High,

    and it will profit you more than gold.

Store up almsgiving in your treasury,

    and it will rescue you from all affliction;

more than a mighty shield and more than a heavy spear,

    it will fight on your behalf against your enemy.

A good man will be surety for his neighbor,

    but a man who has lost his sense of shame will fail him.

Do not forget all the kindness of your surety,

    for he has given his life for you.

A sinner will overthrow the prosperity of his surety,

Wakefulness over wealth wastes away one’s flesh,

    and anxiety about it removes sleep.

Wakeful anxiety prevents slumber,

    and a severe illness carries off sleep.

The rich man toils as his wealth accumulates,

    and when he rests he fills himself with his dainties.

The poor man toils as his livelihood diminishes,

    and when he rests he becomes needy.