## Friday of week 29 in Ordinary Time

### Ecclesiasticus 42:15-25,43:27-33

### Praise of God in creation

Next, I will remind you of the works of the Lord,

    and tell of what I have seen.

By the words of the Lord his works come into being

    and all creation obeys his will.

As the sun in shining looks on all things,

    so the work of the Lord is full of his glory.

The Lord has not granted to the holy ones

    to tell of all his marvels 

which the Almighty Lord has solidly constructed

    for the universe to stand firm in his glory.

He has fathomed the deep and the heart,

    and seen into their devious ways; 

for the Most High knows all the knowledge there is,

    and has observed the signs of the times.

He declares what is past and what will be,

    and uncovers the traces of hidden things.

Not a thought escapes him,

    not a single word is hidden from him.

He has imposed an order on the magnificent works of his wisdom,

    he is from everlasting to everlasting, 

nothing can be added to him, nothing taken away,

    he needs no one’s advice.

How desirable are all his works,

    how dazzling to the eye!

They all live and last for ever,

    whatever the circumstances all obey him.

All things go in pairs, by opposites,

    and he has made nothing defective; 

the one consolidates the excellence of the other,

    who could ever be sated with gazing at his glory?

We could say much more and still fall short;

    to put it concisely, ‘He is all.’

Where shall we find sufficient power to glorify him,

    since he is the Great One, above all his works,

the awe-inspiring Lord, stupendously great,

    and wonderful in his power?

Exalt the Lord in your praises

    as high as you may – still he surpasses you.

Exert all your strength when you exalt him,

    do not grow tired – you will never come to the end.

Who has ever seen him to give a description?

    Who can glorify him as he deserves? 

Many mysteries remain even greater than these,

    for we have seen only a few of his works, 

the Lord himself having made all things –

    and having given wisdom to devout men.