## Monday of week 2 in Ordinary Time

### Genesis 11:1-26

### The scattering of the human race

Now the whole earth had one language and few words. And as men migrated from the east, they found a plain in the land of Shinar and settled there. And they said to one another, “Come, let us make bricks, and burn them thoroughly.” And they had brick for stone, and bitumen for mortar. Then they said, “Come, let us build ourselves a city, and a tower with its top in the heavens, and let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.” And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower, which the sons of men had built. And the Lord said, “Behold, they are one people, and they have all one language; and this is only the beginning of what they will do; and nothing that they propose to do will now be impossible for them. Come, let us go down, and there confuse their language, that they may not understand one another’s speech.” So the Lord scattered them abroad from there over the face of all the earth, and they left off building the city. Therefore its name was called Babel, because there the Lord confused the language of all the earth; and from there the Lord scattered them abroad over the face of all the earth.

These are the descendants of Shem. When Shem was a hundred years old, he became the father of Arpachʹshad two years after the flood; and Shem lived after the birth of Arpachʹshad five hundred years, and had other sons and daughters.

    When Arpachʹshad had lived thirty-five years, he became the father of Shelah; and Arpachʹshad lived after the birth of Shelah four hundred and three years, and had other sons and daughters.

    When Shelah had lived thirty years, he became the father of Eber; and Shelah lived after the birth of Eber four hundred and three years, and had other sons and daughters.

    When Eber had lived thirty-four years, he became the father of Peleg; and Eber lived after the birth of Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and had other sons and daughters.

    When Peleg had lived thirty years, he became the father of Reʹu; and Peleg lived after the birth of Reʹu two hundred and nine years, and had other sons and daughters.

    When Reʹu had lived thirty-two years, he became the father of Serug; and Reʹu lived after the birth of Serug two hundred and seven years, and had other sons and daughters.

    When Serug had lived thirty years, he became the father of Nahor; and Serug lived after the birth of Nahor two hundred years, and had other sons and daughters.

    When Nahor had lived twenty-nine years, he became the father of Terah; and Nahor lived after the birth of Terah a hundred and nineteen years, and had other sons and daughters.

    When Terah had lived seventy years, he became the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran.