## Monday of week 31 in Ordinary Time

### Wisdom 8:21-9:18

### A prayer to obtain wisdom

I appealed to the Lord and besought him,

and with my whole heart I said:

“O God of my fathers and Lord of mercy,

who hast made all things by thy word,

and by thy wisdom hast formed man,

to have dominion over the creatures thou hast made,

and rule the world in holiness and righteousness,

and pronounce judgment in uprightness of soul,

give me the wisdom that sits by thy throne,

and do not reject me from among thy servants.

For I am thy slave and the son of thy maidservant,

a man who is weak and short-lived,

with little understanding of judgment and laws;

for even if one is perfect among the sons of men,

yet without the wisdom that comes from thee he will be regarded as nothing.

Thou hast chosen me to be king of thy people

and to be judge over thy sons and daughters.

Thou hast given command to build a temple on thy holy mountain,

and an altar in the city of thy habitation,

a copy of the holy tent which thou didst prepare from the beginning.

With thee is wisdom, who knows thy works

and was present when thou didst make the world,

and who understand what is pleasing in thy sight

and what is right according to thy commandments.

Send her forth from the holy heavens,

and from the throne of thy glory send her,

that she may be with me and toil,

and that I may learn what is pleasing to thee.

For she knows and understands all things,

and she will guide me wisely in my actions

and guard me with her glory.

Then my works will be acceptable,

and I shall judge thy people justly,

and shall be worthy of the throne of my father.

For what man can learn the counsel of God?

Or who can discern what the Lord wills?

For the reasoning of mortals is worthless,

and our designs are likely to fail,

for a perishable body weighs down the soul,

and this earthy tent burdens the thoughtful mind.

We can hardly guess at what is on earth,

and what is at hand we find with labor;

but who has traced out what is in the heavens?

Who has learned thy counsel, unless thou hast given wisdom

and sent thy holy Spirit from on high?

And thus the paths of those on earth were set right,

and men were taught what pleases thee,

and were saved by wisdom.”